1929: Inside the Greatest Crash in Wall Street History--and How It Shattered a Nation, Andrew Ross Sorkin


It was now Tuesday, October 29, 1929, a day that economist John Kenneth Galbraith would later describe as “the most devastating day in the history of the New York stock market, and it may have been the most devastating day in the history of markets.”


Harrison believed, in that moment, that it was better “to have the stock market fall out of the tenth story, instead of the twentieth later on.”


As the head of the bank, his energy was legendary. A big, athletic man, he often covered the five miles between his home and office on foot at a blistering pace reported to be twelve-minute miles. And as hard as Mitchell worked, he drove his employees harder.


But as an oft-repeated quote attributed to John Maynard Keynes (which was likely apocryphal) described, “Markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent,”


Though Mellon was not an admirer of Wall Street—he believed, as many industrialists of his generation did, that the stock market was a haven for speculators, not legitimate businessmen—he did not consider it Washington’s responsibility to officiate over or interfere in the essentially private matters of buying and selling. If Americans wanted to gamble, they should be allowed to do so without Uncle Sam sticking his nose in their affairs.


Hoover closed his speech with a triumphant message. “Ours is a land rich in resources; stimulating in its glorious beauty; filled with millions of happy homes; blessed with comfort and opportunity,” he said. “In no nation are the institutions of progress more advanced. In no nation are the fruits of accomplishment more secure…I have no fears for the future of our country. It is bright with hope.”


He read aloud again from his notes to Dorothy: “The stock market is a mirror whose function it is to provide an image of the underlying or fundamental situation. Cause and effect run from the economy to the stock market, never the reverse. An unstable economy can be disturbed by all kinds of incidents that on the surface appear extraneous.”


Churchill, who had served as chancellor of the exchequer, needed a break—and more important, an opportunity to shore up his bank account. Politics didn’t pay: He was overdrawn in his checking account by £8,000 and owed £1,000 in overdue taxes, with another £4,000 tax bill on the way.


Unlike in Europe, Churchill observed, “the social life of the United States is built around business.”


Hoover so eagerly awaited Lamont’s advice that when his letter was delivered to the White House by Martin Egan, the publicist for Morgan, the president held up an official procession for several minutes to read and discuss it.


“The white faces were growing slimmer and the faces growing whiter. But they stood there, hour after hour, unable to go away—dying men counting their own last pulse beats.”


At heart a gambler, subject to self-delusion and wishful thinking, Richard Whitney was not a wealthy man; in fact, unlike his brother, he was deep in debt. He had lost too much money on ill-advised speculation and gambling, a secret he kept to himself. Ever the optimist, Whitney was not unduly alarmed at the events of the day, as he believed that while the market might crash, it would then stabilize.


As people left her office late that night, Adams contacted her own broker, who delivered the bad news: The seer’s portfolio had lost $100,000. Whatever the stars and planets had whispered in her ear, she now ordered him to sell everything as soon as trading began the next day.


The time to short the market was near. His gut instinct, which had served him both well and badly, took over. But timing was everything.


Successful financiers were, after all, professional optimists. “You don’t see any Fifth Avenue mansions built by bears,” Baruch’s friend James R. Keene liked to tell him.


What impressed Churchill during his trip was a quality of resilience, an “unshakeable faith in a golden future,” that he did not see at home. Unlike the English, Americans were not deathly afraid of making mistakes with their money because they believed that even if they were wiped out, opportunities to make it all back, and more, would continue to present themselves. “Before disparaging American methods,” he wrote, “the English critic would do well to acquaint himself with the inherent probity and strength of the American speculative machine. It is not built to prevent crises, but to survive them.”


His optimism about American capitalism was unbowed. “No one could doubt that this financial disaster, huge as it is, cruel as it is to thousands, is only a passing episode in the march of a valiant and serviceable people who by fierce experiment are hewing new paths for man, and showing to all nations much that they should attempt and much that they should avoid.”


“The collapse of the market, over and above the pain, couldn’t help but be amusing,” E. B. White noted acerbically in The New Yorker. “It is amusing to see a fat land quivering in paunchy fright. The quake, furthermore, verified our suspicion that our wise and talky friends hadn’t known for months what they were talking about when they were discussing stocks.”


the “Tammany technique, which is: raise the salaries of city employees a little before the election and your own a lot after the election.”


The collapse was not a moment. It was a relentless unraveling. Wall Street called it the “Hoover market.” It certainly wasn’t theirs. Ben Smith, a trader nicknamed the Jolly Bear, was said to short the market whenever the president made a statement. No matter what he said, prices always went south.


John Maynard Keynes published A Treatise on Money, seven years in the making, which argued that public spending was essential to breaking bad economic cycles. Later he would coin the term “paradox of thrift” to explain how people’s natural impulse to save money during times of economic uncertainty has the effect of worsening the economy because no one is spending. This, he would later contend, is why the government has to step in.


The journalistic tone of the decade was set by the upstart Time, which did virtually no original reporting of its own. Instead, editors scoured newspapers from across the country for usable material and repurposed it into zippy news bits and supercilious profiles sprinkled with Ivy League witticisms.


“In addition to adopting the five-day week we should also arrange to have all legal holidays except perhaps Christmas celebrated on Mondays. This will provide a three-day recreational period around each holiday.” Raskob also made the case for the elimination of capital gains taxes to “give greater encouragement to capital to engage in speculative enterprise, which is bound to result in greater employment.”


Unlike his boss, MacLafferty was a political animal. Though lacking an official title or even a regular paycheck, the former congressman from California had the license to drop in to see Hoover at any time without an appointment. Using a back entrance he simply came and went whenever they had something to discuss, often late at night. MacLafferty viewed Hoover as a conscientious objector to the Washington game. By not flattering reporters or observing the little rituals that made reporters’ jobs easier and their coverage friendlier, Hoover, he believed, was taking a principled stand. Catering to the press was politics; governance was a separate and higher realm. Now that he was in office, why did he have to play tit-for-tat games at all? Save all that for the campaign trail.


Glass’s view was that companies had issued stock for the purpose of raising funds to make loans right back into the stock market and that Wall Street was fully complicit in this circular flow of capital, happy to organize the offerings and collect ample fees and commissions along the way. Mitchell, in an equally calm voice, said he was unaware of that actually happening and stuck to his position that raising the rates would have slowed the flow of these loans. Glass said he didn’t think it would’ve made a difference. “Well, that’s what makes a horse race,” said Mitchell, flashing his congenial smile.


Forbes approvingly quoted Mitchell’s theory of how to live well. “A man can get a temporary thrill from making money but if all he has to show for his life’s work is a financial balance he cannot derive a great deal of satisfaction. A man must be able to say ‘My work has been of such a character that I have benefited my fellowmen.’ Unless he can do that, his satisfaction, his happiness, is bound to be ephemeral.”


Hoover was exasperated that the crash and its aftermath were consuming his presidency. “In this emergency, it is just one fixing job after another,” he complained. “There is an international crack to fill up, then an industrial leak and then an agricultural flood. I am just a repairman. I don’t have any time to do anything new.”


“The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization. We may now restore that temple to the ancient truths. The measure of the restoration lies in the extent to which we apply social values more noble than mere monetary profit.” Roosevelt spoke for not even twenty minutes, short by historical standards, striking a tone of defiant optimism.


“The only difference between a bank burglar and a bank president is that one works at night,” wisecracked a writer for the Chicago Tribune.


On his first day before the Senate committee, Jack Morgan made an opening statement that summarized what might be called the “Morgan Ethos.” “The private banker is a member of a profession which has been practiced since the Middle Ages. In the process of time there has grown up a code of professional ethics and customs, on the observance of which depend his reputation, his force and his usefulness to the community in which he works…if in the exercise of his profession, the private banker disregards this code, which could never be expressed in any legislation, but has a force far greater than any law, he will sacrifice his credit. This credit is his most valuable possession; it is the result of years of faith and honorable dealing and while it may be quickly lost, once lost cannot be restored for a long time, if ever.”


The reverend, a slender man who spoke deliberately, concluded with a message: “Many of us achieve self-approval by cheap and superficial methods, concocting clever excuses to make what we want to do seem admirable,” he said, “so that we can condone our actions and like ourselves.”


Like the Chrysler Building, however, as well as Rockefeller Center, the other stupendous addition to the New York skyline during that era, the Empire State Building was a financial albatross for years. At its opening, it was less than 20 percent occupied. Raskob’s friend Al Smith gave space away for free to Catholic charities, just so it didn’t seem so terribly vacant.


Markets are not contests of virtue and honor. By pitting the greed of their participants against one another, they wend their messy way toward fair and reasonable prices. Over time, in the aggregate, the system works, even if at any given moment, it can look like pure chaos. Whitney’s and Wiggin’s actions were consequential only after the fact, serving as proof to the general public that Wall Street was corrupt and had to be punished. However contemptible, their behavior—and that of their fellow Wall Street bankers—did not cause the crash on its own.


Hoover committed the ultimate beaver-man blunder when he tried to assuage the public by changing the name for the economic slowdown from a “panic” to a “depression,” which may be the worst rebranding of all time. The one good thing about a panic, after all, is that it doesn’t last long. Whereas a depression? Who knows how long that might go on.


When I embarked on this book, one of my narrative touchstones was Walter Lord’s A Night to Remember, the definitive and riveting account of the sinking of the Titanic.


The enduring lesson is not that booms can be prevented or that busts can be fully averted. It is that we need to remember how easily we forget. The antidote to irrational exuberance is not regulation by itself, nor skepticism, but humility—the humility to know that no system is foolproof, no market fully rational, and no generation exempt. The greater the heights of our certainty, the longer and harder we fall.


A Confession, Leo Tolstoy


I sympathized with these jokes made by my elders, and drew from them the conclusion that though it is necessary to learn the catechism and go to church, one must not take such things too seriously. I remember also that I read Voltaire when I was very young, and that his raillery, far from shocking me, amused me very much.


the word spoken by his brother was like the push of a finger on a wall that was ready to fall by its own weight.

Notes: 1) Lee says sonething similar in last q of east of eden 


Becoming conscious of their senselessness he could not continue them. So it has been and is, I think, with the great majority of people.


Looking back on that time, I now see clearly that my faith - my only real faith - that which apart from my animal instincts gave impulse to my life - was a belief in perfecting myself. But in what this perfecting consisted and what its object was, I could not have said. I tried to perfect myself mentally - I studied everything I could, anything life threw in my way; I tried to perfect my will, I drew up rules I tried to follow; I perfected myself physically, cultivating my strength and agility by all sorts of exercises, and accustoming myself to endurance and patience by all kinds of privations. And all this I considered to be the pursuit of perfection. the beginning of it all was of course moral perfection, but that was soon replaced by perfection in general: by the desire to be better not in my own eyes or those of God but in the eyes of other people. And very soon this effort again changed into a desire to be stronger than others: to be more famous, more important and richer than others.


How often in my writings I contrived to hide under the guise of indifference, or even of banter, those strivings of mine towards goodness which gave meaning to my life!


It is now clear to me that this was just as in a lunatic asylum; but then I only dimly suspected this, and like all lunatics, simply called all men lunatics except myself.


So, for instance, during my stay in Paris, the sight of an execution revealed to me the instability of my superstitious belief in progress. When I saw the head part from the body and how they thumped separately into the box, I understood, not with my mind but with my whole being, that no theory of the reasonableness of our present progress could justify this deed; and that though everybody from the creation of the world had held it to be necessary, on whatever theory, I knew it to be unnecessary and bad; and therefore the arbiter of what is good and evil is not what people say and do, nor is it progress, but it is my heart and I.


by quarrelling among themselves only succeeded in hiding their ignorance from one another.


I fell ill, mentally rather than physically, threw up everything, and went away to the Bashkirs in the steppes, to breathe fresh air, drink kumys 5 , and live a merely animal life.


that which at the age of fifty brought me to the verge of suicide - was the simplest of questions, lying in the soul of every man from the foolish child to the wisest elder: it was a question without an answer to which one cannot live, as I had found by experience. It was: "What will come of what I am doing today or shall do tomorrow? What will come of my whole life?" Differently expressed, the question is: "Why should I live, why wish for anything, or do anything?" It can also be expressed thus: "Is there any meaning in my life that the inevitable death awaiting me does not destroy?"


Above all, my personal question, "What am I with my desires?" remained quite unanswered. And I understood that those sciences are very interesting and attractive, but that they are exact and clear in inverse proportion to their applicability to the question of life: the less their applicability to the question of life, the more exact and clear they are, while the more they try to reply to the question of life, the more obscure and unattractive they become.


In the abstract sphere I understood that notwithstanding the fact, or just because of the fact, that the direct aim of science is to reply to my question, there is no reply but that which I have myself already given: "What is the meaning of my life?" "There is none." Or: "What will come of my life?" "Nothing." Or: "Why does everything exist that exists, and why do I exist?" "Because it exists."


"Vanity of vanities", says Solomon - "vanity of vanities - all is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, and another generation commeth: but the earth abideth for ever....The thing that hath been, is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us. there is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. I the Preacher was King over Israel in Jerusalem. And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven: this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit....I communed with my own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me over Jerusalem: yea, my heart hath great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit. For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.


This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event unto all; yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.


And Sakya Muni could find no consolation in life, and decided that life is the greatest of evils; and he devoted all the strength of his soul to free himself from it, and to free others; and to do this so that, even after death, life shall not be renewed any more but be completely destroyed at its very roots. So speaks all the wisdom of India.


The first was that of ignorance. It consists in not knowing, not understanding, that life is an evil and an absurdity. People of this sort - chiefly women, or very young or very dull people - have not yet understood that question of life which presented itself to Schopenhauer, Solomon, and Buddha.


From them I had nothing to learn - one cannot cease to know what one does know.


The second way out is epicureanism. It consists, while knowing the hopelessness of life, in making use meanwhile of the advantages one has, disregarding the dragon and the mice, and licking the honey in the best way, especially if there is much of it within reach. Solomon expresses this way out thus: "Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: and that this should accompany him in his labour the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun. "Therefore eat thy bread with joy and drink thy wine with a merry heart.... Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity...for this is thy portion in life and in thy labours which thou takest under the sun.... Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might, for there is not work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest."


So think and feel the majority of people of our day and our manner of life. The fact that some of these people declare the dullness of their thoughts and imaginations to be a philosophy, which they call Positive, does not remove them, in my opinion, from the ranks of those who, to avoid seeing the question, lick the honey. I could not imitate these people; not having their dullness of imagination I could not artificially produce it in myself. I could not tear my eyes from the mice and the dragon, as no vital man can after he has once seen them.


By faith it appears that in order to understand the meaning of life I must renounce my reason, the very thing for which alone a meaning is required.


And really, strictly scientific knowledge - that knowledge which begins, as Descartes's did, with complete doubt about everything - rejects all knowledge admitted on faith and builds everything afresh on the laws of reason and experience, and cannot give any other reply to the question of life than that which I obtained: an indefinite reply. Only at first had it seemed to me that knowledge had given a positive reply - the reply of Schopenhauer: that life has no meaning and is an evil. But on examining the matter I understood that the reply is not positive, it was only my feeling that so expressed it. Strictly expressed, as it is by the Brahmins and by Solomon and Schopenhauer, the reply is merely indefinite, or an identity: o equals o, life is nothing.


Faith still remained to me as irrational as it was before, but I could not but admit that it alone gives mankind a reply to the questions of life, and that consequently it makes life possible.


Whatever the faith may be, and whatever answers it may give, and to whomsoever it gives them, every such answer gives to the finite existence of man an infinite meaning, a meaning not destroyed by sufferings, deprivations, or death. This means that only in faith can we find for life a meaning and a possibility. What, then, is this faith? And I understood that faith is not merely "the evidence of things not seen", etc., and is not a revelation (that defines only one of the indications of faith, is not the relation of man to God (one has first to define faith and then God, and not define faith through God); it not only agreement with what has been told one (as faith is most usually supposed to be), but faith is a knowledge of the meaning of human life in consequence of which man does not destroy himself but lives. Faith is the strength of life. If a man lives he believes in something. If he did not believe that one must live for something, he would not live. If he does not see and recognize the illusory nature of the finite, he believes in the finite; if he understands the illusory nature of the finite, he must believe in the infinite. Without faith he cannot live.


Together with the best human intellects I reached the result that o equals o, and was much astonished at that conclusion, though nothing else could have resulted.


I understood, in the first place, that my position with Schopenhauer and Solomon, notwithstanding our wisdom, was stupid: we see that life is an evil and yet continue to live. That is evidently stupid, for if life is senseless and I am so fond of what is reasonable, it should be destroyed, and then there would be no one to challenge it. Secondly, I understood that all one's reasonings turned in a vicious circle like a wheel out of gear with its pinion. However much and however well we may reason we cannot obtain a reply to the question; and o will always equal o, and therefore our path is probably erroneous. Thirdly, I began to understand that in the replies given by faith is stored up the deepest human wisdom and that I had no right to deny them on the ground of reason, and that those answers are the only ones which reply to life's question.


It was not that in their doctrines they mixed many unnecessary and unreasonable things with the Christian truths that had always been near to me: that was not what repelled me. I was repelled by the fact that these people's lives were like my own, with only this difference - that such a life did not correspond to the principles they expounded in their teachings.


It came about that the life of our circle, the rich and learned, not merely became distasteful to me, but lost all meaning in my eyes. All our actions, discussions, science and art, presented itself to me in a new light. I understood that it is all merely self-indulgence, and that to find a meaning in it is impossible; while the life of the whole labouring people, the whole of mankind who produce life, appeared to me in its true significance. I understood that *that* is life itself, and that the meaning given to that life is true: and I accepted it.


I came to love good people, hated myself, and confessed the truth. Now all became clear to me.


I went over in my mind the arguments of Kant and Schopenhauer showing the impossibility of proving the existence of a God, and I began to verify those arguments and to refute them. Cause, said I to myself, is not a category of thought such as are Time and Space. If I exist, there must be some cause for it, and a cause of causes. And that first cause of all is what men have called "God". And I paused on that thought, and tried with all my being to recognize the presence of that cause. And as soon as I acknowledged that there is a force in whose power I am, I at once felt that I could live. But I asked myself: What is that cause, that force? How am I to think of it? What are my relations to that which I call "God"?


I returned to the belief in that Will which produced me and desires something of me. I returned to the belief that the chief and only aim of my life is to be better, i.e. to live in accord with that Will. and I returned to the belief that I can find the expression of that Will in what humanity, in the distant past hidden from, has produced for its guidance: that is to say, I returned to a belief in God, in moral perfection, and in a tradition transmitting the meaning of life.


But together with this meaning of the popular faith of our non-sectarian folk, among whom I live, much was inseparably bound up that revolted me and seemed to me inexplicable: sacraments, Church services, fasts, and the adoration of relics and icons. The people cannot separate the one from the other, nor could I.


All that people sincerely believe in must be true; it may be differently expressed but it cannot be a lie, and therefore if it presents itself to me as a lie, that only means that I have not understood it.


Furthermore I said to myself, the essence of every faith consists in its giving life a meaning which death does not destroy.


To attain truth one must not separate, and in order not to separate one must love and must endure things one may not agree with.


I felt that the more I entered into the meaning of these men's speech, the more I went astray from truth and approached an abyss.


At that time, in consequence of my interest in religion, I came into touch with believers of various faiths: Catholics, protestants, Old-Believers, Molokans 10 , and others.


The ecclesiastics of all the different creeds, through their best representatives, told me nothing but that they believed themselves to have the truth and the others to be in error, and that all they could do was to pray for them.


And besides the murders during the war, I saw, during the disturbances which followed the war, Church dignitaries and teachers and monks of the lesser and stricter orders who approved the killing of helpless, erring youths. And I took note of all that is done by men who profess Christianity, and I was horrified.


I shall not seek the explanation of everything. I know that the explanation of everything, like the commencement of everything, must be concealed in infinity. But I wish to understand in a way which will bring me to what is inevitably inexplicable. I wish to recognize anything that is inexplicable as being so not because the demands of my reason are wrong (they are right, and apart from them I can understand nothing), but because I recognize the limits of my intellect.


Tolstoy's version differs slightly in a few places from our own Authorized or Revised version. I have followed his text, for in a letter to Fet, quoted on p. 18, vol. ii, of my "Life of Tolstoy," he says that "The Authorized English version [of Ecclesiastes] is bad." - A.M.


A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century, Barbara Wertheim  Tuchman


“For mankind is ever the same and nothing is lost out of nature, though everything is altered.” —JOHN DRYDEN, “On the Characters in the Canterbury Tales,” In Preface to Fables, Ancient and Modern


If our last decade or two of collapsing assumptions has been a period of unusual discomfort, it is reassuring to know that the human species has lived through worse before.


“History never repeats itself,” said Voltaire; “man always does.” Thucydides, of course, made that principle the justification of his work.


If one insists upon a lesson from history, it lies here, as discovered by the French medievalist Edouard Perroy when he was writing a book on the Hundred Years’ War while dodging the Gestapo during World War II. “Certain ways of behavior,” he wrote, “certain reactions against fate, throw mutual light upon each other.”


No age is tidy or made of whole cloth, and none is a more checkered fabric than the Middle Ages.


A greater hazard, built into the very nature of recorded history, is overload of the negative: the disproportionate survival of the bad side—of evil, misery, contention, and harm. In history this is exactly the same as in the daily newspaper. The normal does not make news. History is made by the documents that survive, and these lean heavily on crisis and calamity, crime and misbehavior, because such things are the subject matter of the documentary process—of lawsuits, treaties, moralists’ denunciations, literary satire, papal Bulls.


This has led me to formulate Tuchman’s Law, as follows: “The fact of being reported multiplies the apparent extent of any deplorable development by five- to tenfold” (or any figure the reader would care to supply).


The rupture of this principle and its replacement by belief in the worth of the individual and of an active life not necessarily focused on God is, in fact, what created the modern world and ended the Middle Ages.


A Philosophy of Walking, Frederic Gros and Clifford Harper and and John Howe


We do not belong to those who have ideas only among books, when stimulated by books. It is our habit to think outdoors – walking, leaping, climbing, dancing, preferably on lonely mountains or near the sea where even the trails become thoughtful. Friedrich Nietzsche,


Once on his feet, though, man does not stay where he is.


In walks that extend over several days, during major expeditions, everything is inverted. ‘Outside’ is no longer a transition, but the element in which stability exists.


That is how the big separation between outside and inside is turned upside down by walking. We shouldn’t say that we cross mountains and plains, and that we stop at lodgings. It is almost the opposite: for several days I live in a landscape, I slowly take possession of it, I make it my site.


The illusion of speed is the belief that it saves time. It looks simple at first sight: finish something in two hours instead of three, gain an hour. It’s an abstract calculation, though, done as if each hour of the day were like an hour on the clock, absolutely equal.


When you are walking, nothing really moves: it is rather that presence is slowly established in the body. When we are walking, it isn’t so much that we are drawing nearer, more that the things out there become more and more insistent in our body. The landscape is a set of tastes, colours, scents which the body absorbs.


Verlaine called him ‘the man with soles of wind’. The man himself, when still very young, had described himself thus: ‘I’m a pedestrian, nothing more.’ Rimbaud walked throughout his life.


‘I set off, my fists in my torn pockets; my overcoat too was becoming ideal; I was going under the sky, Muse! And I was your vassal; Oh good heavens, what splendid amours I dreamed!’


Always on foot, every time. ‘I’m a pedestrian, nothing more.’ Nothing more. To walk, to make progress, anger is needed. With him there is always that parting cry, that furious joy. Let’s go, hat, greatcoat, both fists in pockets, and step outside. Forward, route! Let’s go! And he walked.


‘Lord, when cold is the prairie …’ Towards the sun.


To someone who has never had the experience, a simple description of the walker’s condition quickly appears an absurdity, an aberration, a form of voluntary servitude. Because the city-dweller tends spontaneously to interpret such activity in terms of deprivation, whereas the walker considers it a liberation to be disentangled from the web of exchanges, no longer reduced to a junction in the network redistributing information, images and goods; to see that these things have only the reality and importance you give them. Not only does your world not collapse within these disconnected moments, but those connections suddenly appear to be burdensome, stifling, over-restrictive entanglements.


What I mean is that by walking you are not going to meet yourself. By walking, you escape from the very idea of identity, the temptation to be someone, to have a name and a history. Being someone is all very well for smart parties where everyone is telling their story, it’s all very well for psychologists’ consulting rooms. But isn’t being someone also a social obligation which trails in its wake – for one has to be faithful to the self-portrait – a stupid and burdensome fiction? The freedom in walking lies in not being anyone; for the walking body has no history, it is just an eddy in the stream of immemorial life.


So with up to three or four people, walking allows these moments of shared solitude. For solitude too can be shared, like bread and daylight.


So it’s best to walk alone, except that one is never entirely alone. As Henry David Thoreau wrote: ‘I have a great deal of company in the house, especially in the morning when nobody calls.’


What I mean is that even when I am alone, there is always this dialogue between the body and the soul. When the walking is steady and continuous, I encourage, praise, congratulate: good legs, carrying me along … almost patting my thigh, as one pats the withers of a horse. During those long moments of effort, when the body strains, I am there to support it: come on, keep it up, of course you can. When I walk, I soon become two. My body and me: a couple, an old story. Truly the soul is the body’s witness.


During long, easy walks, on well-traced routes, when all you have to do is follow an interminable set of hairpins, you hatch a thousand plans, invent a thousand tales. The body slowly advances, with measured steps, and that same tranquillity gives the mind a day off. Relieved of duty by the automatic functioning of the body, it follows up its fantasies and projects itself into a labyrinth of stories. While the gentle shock-free rolling of happy legs drives the evolving narrative forward: challenges arise, their solutions are found, fresh ambushes appear.


Rousseau conceived the insane plan to identify – in himself, homo viator, walking man – the natural man, one not disfigured by culture, education, art: man as he would have been before books or salons, before society or paid labour.


A Room Of One&#39;s Own, Virginia Woolf


“I” is only a convenient term for somebody who has no real being. Lies will flow from my lips, but there may perhaps be some truth mixed up with them; it is for you to seek out this truth and to decide whether any part of it is worth keeping.


That a famous library has been cursed by a woman is a matter of complete indifference to a famous library. Venerable and calm, with all its treasures safe locked within its breast, it sleeps complacently and will, so far as I am concerned, so sleep for ever.


The organ complained magnificently as I passed the chapel door. Even the sorrow of Christianity sounded in that serene air more like the recollection of sorrow than sorrow itself; even the groanings of the ancient organ seemed lapped in peace.


Meanwhile the wineglasses had flushed yellow and flushed crimson; had been emptied; had been filled. And thus by degrees was lit, half-way down the spine, which is the seat of the soul, not that hard little electric light which we call brilliance, as it pops in and out upon our lips, but the more profound, subtle and subterranean glow which is the rich yellow flame of rational intercourse.


The human frame being what it is, heart, body and brain all mixed together, and not contained in separate compartments as they will be no doubt in another million years, a good dinner is of great importance to good talk. One cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined well. The lamp in the spine does not light on beef and prunes.


Abundance, Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson


Laws meant to ensure that government considers the consequences of its actions have made it too difficult for government to act consequentially. Institutional renewal is a labor that every generation faces anew.


An abundance of consumer goods distracted us from a scarcity of homes and energy and infrastructure and scientific breakthroughs. A counterforce is emerging, but it is young yet.


Progressivism’s promises and policies, for decades, were built around giving people money, or money-like vouchers, to go out and buy something that the market was producing but that the poor could not afford. The Affordable Care Act subsidizes insurance that people can use to pay for health care. Food stamps give people money for food. Housing vouchers give them money for rent. Pell Grants give them money for college. Tax credits for child care give people money to buy child care. Social Security gives them money for retirement. The minimum wage and the earned-income tax credit give them more money for anything they want.


giving people a subsidy for a good whose supply is choked is like building a ladder to try to reach an elevator that is racing ever upward. The results of that mistake are everywhere. In 1950, the median home price was 2.2 times the average annual income; by 2020, it was 6 times the average annual income.5 Between 1999 and 2023, the average premium for employer-based family health insurance rose from $5,791 to $23,968—an increase of more than 300 percent—and the worker contribution to that premium more than quadrupled.6 In 1970, the average annual cost of tuition and fees was $394 at public colleges and $1,706 at private colleges. In 2023, it was $11,310 at public colleges for in-state students and $41,740 at private colleges.7 Child care for an infant and a four-year-old costs, on average, $36,008 in Massachusetts, $28,420 in California, and $28,338 in Minnesota.8


fight instead over what we have, or what we had. Our era features too little utopian thinking, but one worthy exception is Aaron Bastani’s Fully Automated Luxury Communism, a leftist tract that puts the technologies in development right now—artificial intelligence, renewable energy, asteroid mining, plant- and cell-based meats, and gene editing—at the center of a post-work, post-scarcity vision.11 “What if everything could change?” he asks. “What if, more than simply meeting the great challenges of our time—from climate change to inequality and ageing—we went far beyond them, putting today’s problems behind us like we did before with large predators and, for the most part, illness?


The corollary is also true: to have no program to harness technology in service of social change is its own form of blindness.


Too often, the right sees only the imagined glories of the past, and the left sees only the injustices of the present.


California is a land of wonders. It leads the world in technology. It creates the culture that much of the world consumes. It is astonishingly, breathtakingly beautiful. If it were its own country, it would have the fifth-largest GDP in the world.


By the year 2000, moving to New York meant, for most people, taking an effective pay cut. That’s not because paychecks have shrunk but because housing costs have risen. People now pay to live there; they aren’t paid to live there.


Too many have bought into a perverse inversion of what the city should be. Cities are where wealth is created, not just where it is displayed. They are meant to be escalators into the middle class, not penthouses for the upper class. But through bad policy and worse politics, we are doing in the twenty-first century what we so feared in the nineteenth: we are closing the American frontier.


The money you save in rent doesn’t make up for the talent and knowledge that dissipate over distance.


Remote work is a powerful force. But the centripetal power of the city is stronger. “To defeat the human need for face-to-face contact, our technological marvels would need to defeat millions of years of human evolution that has made us into machines for learning from the people next to us,” Glaeser writes.”21


Divergence


In the same progressive zip codes where homeowners press signs into the soil of their front lawns bearing the message Kindness Is Everything, affordable housing can’t be found—and homelessness is endemic.


A similar story emerges for unemployment: homelessness is low where unemployment is high and high where unemployment is low.46 Odd.


If homelessness is a housing problem, it is also a policy choice—or, more accurately, the result of many, many, many small policy choices.


though often minimal—standards be maintained in them.


the Atlantic, traces the politics of treating homes as assets.


“Lot-size requirements forced developers to build fewer and more expensive homes, in turn guaranteeing that the homes would be sold to wealthier, whiter buyers,” writes Anbinder. He quotes a homeowner in Greenwich, Connecticut, giving up the game in 1967. “It’s like going into Tiffany and demanding a ring for $12.50,” said the homeowner. “Tiffany doesn’t have rings for $12.50. Well, Greenwich is like Tiffany.”57 If you zone Greenwich so the only people who can afford homes are multimillionaires, then only multimillionaires will live in Greenwich.


“The catalog of ills is long: there is the decay of the centers and the despoiling of the suburbs,” he said. “There is not enough housing for our people or transportation for our traffic. Open land is vanishing and old landmarks are violated.”


The family which takes its mauve and cerise, air-conditioned, power-steered and power-braked automobile out for a tour passes through cities that are badly paved, made hideous by litter, blighted buildings, billboards, and posts for wires that should long since have been put underground.… They picnic on exquisitely packaged food from a portable icebox by a polluted stream and go on to spend the night at a park which is a menace to public health and morals. Just before dozing off on an air mattress, beneath a nylon tent, amid the stench of decaying refuse, they may reflect vaguely on the curious unevenness of their blessings. Is this, indeed, the American genius?60


In 1900, there were scarcely 8,000 cars in the entire country.62 By 1970, 118 million cars sluiced through a nearly completed Interstate Highway System. In 1900, no one had ever flown in an airplane. By 1970, millions of passengers boarded wide-body jetliners like the Boeing 747 to travel across the oceans to thousands of airports around the world. To a previous generation, this technology would have been indistinguishable from sorcery. As every reader of fantasy novels knows, great magic carries a terrible price.


These were not partisan fights. To read President Richard Nixon’s State of the Union address from 1970 is to tumble into a politics very different than our own, where Republicans talked in ways that even few Democrats dare speak today:


CEQA became a potent weapon against the construction of new homes. “Between 1972 and 1975, twenty-nine thousand proposed homes in the Bay Area—roughly a fifth of the region’s total housing production at the time—were subject to environmental litigation,” Anbinder writes.74


Anti-growth politics could, and often did, tip into a kind of misanthropy aimed at newcomers. Those who already lived in a place were its stewards, its guardians, its voice. Those who wanted to move to that place were recast as a consumptive horde.


Industrial animal agriculture is more than a climate problem. It is a moral stain upon modernity. There is probably no single change that would do more for our interlinked environmental problems than for the world to cease using cows and goats and sheep for food.


New problems and new solutions require new laws. Ruhl and Salzman favor past models by which certain kinds of projects have been fast-tracked past environmental and legal challenges.


Against Everything: Essays, Mark Greif


Much of daily life is turned over to life maintenance at the very moment you’d think we’d be free to pursue higher goals.


No matter what you are supposed to do, you can prove the supposition wrong, just by doing something else.


East of Eden, John Steinbeck


In 1919 he went to Stanford University, where he intermittently enrolled in literature and writing courses until he left in 1925 without taking a degree.


You can boast about anything if it’s all you have. Maybe the less you have, the more you are required to boast.


And it never failed that during the dry years the people forgot about the rich years, and during the wet years they lost all memory of the dry years. It was always that way.


The names of places carry a charge of the people who named them, reverent or irreverent, descriptive, either poetic or disparaging. You can name anything San Lorenzo, but Shirt Tail Canyon or the Lame Moor is something quite different.


and, as is so often true in that green country, they were connected and related to very great people and very small people, so that one cousin might be a baronet and another cousin a beggar. And of course they were descended from the ancient kings of Ireland, as every Irishman is.


She had a dour Presbyterian mind and a code of morals that pinned down and beat the brains out of nearly everything that was pleasant to do.


regarded by his comrades with contemptuous affection and the unspoken fear men have of impulses they do not understand.


The Irish do have a despairing quality of gaiety, but they have also a dour and brooding ghost that rides on their shoulders and peers in on their thoughts. Let them laugh too loudly, it sticks a long finger down their throats. They condemn themselves before they are charged, and this makes them defensive always.


The porch steps complained again, and Adam knew the woman would be standing in her doorway ready to spray inhospitality on the new arrival.


Time interval is a strange and contradictory matter in the mind. It would be reasonable to suppose that a routine time or an eventless time would seem interminable. It should be so, but it is not. It is the dull eventless times that have no duration whatever. A time splashed with interest, wounded with tragedy, crevassed with joy—that’s the time that seems long in the memory. And this is right when you think about it. Eventlessness has no posts to drape duration on. From nothing to nothing is no time at all.


When two events have something in common, in their natures or in time or place, we leap happily to the conclusion that they are similar and from this tendency we create magics and store them for retelling.


And just as there are physical monsters, can there not be mental or psychic monsters born? The face and body may be perfect, but if a twisted gene or a malformed egg can produce physical monsters, may not the same process produce a malformed soul?


You must not forget that a monster is only a variation, and that to a monster the norm is monstrous.


Cathy was a liar, but she did not lie the way most children do. Hers was no daydream lying, when the thing imagined is told and, to make it seem more real, told as real. That is just ordinary deviation from external reality. I think the difference between a lie and a story is that a story utilizes the trappings and appearance of truth for the interest of the listener as well as of the teller. A story has in it neither gain nor loss. But a lie is a device for profit or escape. I suppose if that definition is strictly held to, then a writer of stories is a liar—if he is financially fortunate.


In all such local tragedies time works like a damp brush on water color. The sharp edges blur, the ache goes out of it, the colors melt together, and from the many separated lines a solid gray emerges.


They were fed and clothed and taken care of until they were too old, and then they were kicked out. This ending was no deterrent. No one who is young is ever going to be old.


YOU CAN SEE how this book has reached a great boundary that was called 1900. Another hundred years were ground up and churned, and what had happened was all muddied by the way folks wanted it to be—more rich and meaningful the farther back it was. In the books of some memories it was the best time that ever sloshed over the world—the old time, the gay time, sweet and simple, as though time were young and fearless. Old men who didn’t know whether they were going to stagger over the boundary of the century looked forward to it with distaste. For the world was changing, and sweetness was gone, and virtue too. Worry had crept on a corroding world, and what was lost— good manners, ease and beauty? Ladies were not ladies any more, and you couldn’t trust a gentleman’s word. There was a time when people kept their fly buttons fastened. And man’s freedom was boiling off. And even childhood was no good any more—not the way it was. No worry then but how to find a good stone, not round exactly but flattened and water-shaped, to use in a sling pouch cut from a discarded shoe. Where did all the good stones go, and all simplicity?


There is great tension in the world, tension toward a breaking point, and men are unhappy and confused. At such a time it seems natural and good to me to ask myself these questions. What do I believe in? What must I fight for and what must I fight against?


And this I believe: that the free, exploring mind of the individual human is the most valuable thing in the world. And this I would fight for: the freedom of the mind to take any direction it wishes, undirected. And this I must fight against: any idea, religion, or government which limits or destroys the individual. This is what I am and what I am about. I can understand why a system built on a pattern must try to destroy the free mind, for that is one thing which can by inspection destroy such a system. Surely I can understand this, and I hate it and I will fight against it to preserve the one thing that separates us from the uncreative beasts. If the glory can be killed, we are lost.


Her theology was a curious mixture of Irish fairies and an Old Testament Jehovah whom in her later life she confused with her father. Heaven was to her a nice home ranch inhabited by her dead relatives.


There are no ugly questions except those clothed in condescension.


He had an idea that even when beaten he could steal a little victory by laughing at defeat.


True enough, the Reverend Billing, when they caught up with him, turned out to be a thief, an adulterer, a libertine, and a zoophilist, but that didn’t change the fact that he had communicated some good things to a great number of receptive people. Billing went to jail, but no one ever arrested the good things he had released. And it doesn’t matter much that his motive was impure. He used good material and some of it stuck. I use Billing only as an outrageous example. The honest preachers had energy and go. They fought the devil, no holds barred, boots and eye-gouging permitted. You might get the idea that they howled truth and beauty the way a seal bites out the National Anthem on a row of circus horns. But some of the truth and beauty remained, and the anthem was recognizable.


tragedian.


Adam seemed clothed in a viscosity that slowed his movements and held his thoughts down. He saw the world through gray water. Now and then his mind fought its way upward, and when the light broke in it brought him only a sickness of the mind, and he retired into the grayness again.


“Some people think it’s an insult to the glory of their sickness to get well. But the time poultice is no respecter of glories. Everyone gets well if he waits around.”


And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden.’ ”


Lee asked, “How does Mrs. Hamilton feel about the paradoxes of the Bible?” “Why, she does not feel anything because she does not admit they are there.” “But—” “Hush, man. Ask her. And you’ll come out of it older but not less confused.”


If a story is not about the hearer he will not listen.


I think everyone in the world to a large or small extent has felt rejection. And with rejection comes anger, and with anger some kind of crime in revenge for the rejection, and with the crime guilt—and there is the story of mankind.


Joe had gone east and was helping to invent a new profession called advertising. Joe’s very faults were virtues in this field. He found that he could communicate his material daydreaming—and, properly applied, that is all advertising is.


Samuel told Adam Trask that Tom was arguing with greatness. And the father watched his son and could feel the drive and the fear, the advance and the retreat, because he could feel it in himself. Tom did not have his father’s lyric softness or his gay good looks. But you could feel Tom when you came near to him—you could feel strength and warmth and an iron integrity. And under all of this was a shrinking— a shy shrinking. He could be as gay as his father, and suddenly in the middle it would be cut the way you would cut a violin string, and you could watch Tom go whirling into darkness.


He had spurts of bravery but they were bracketed in battens of cowardice.


“You know how it is,” Samuel said. “When you know a friend is there you do not go to see him. Then he’s gone and you blast your conscience to shreds that you did not see him.”


Adam drained his glass. He felt remote and inspective. He thought he could see her impulses crawling like ants and could read them. The sense of deep understanding that alcohol sometimes gives was on him.


I believe there are techniques of the human mind whereby, in its dark deep, problems are examined, rejected or accepted. Such activities sometimes concern facets a man does not know he has. How often one goes to sleep troubled and full of pain, not knowing what causes the travail, and in the morning a whole new direction and a clearness is there, maybe the result of the black reasoning. And again there are mornings when ecstasy bubbles in the blood, and the stomach and chest are tight and electric with joy, and nothing in the thoughts to justify it or cause it.


The boys exchanged uneasy glances. It was their first experience with the inexorable logic of women, which is overwhelming even, or perhaps especially, when it is wrong.


“Dear brother Charles,” it said. “You will be surprised to hear from me after so long. I have thought of writing many times, but you know how a man puts it off. “I wonder how this letter finds you. I trust in good health.


And Liza said with her dreadful simplicity, “You’re already pushed by your own contentiousness. You’re a mule of contention, a very mule!” “Someone’s got to do these things,” he said sullenly. “Else Fate would not ever get nose-thumbed and mankind would still be clinging to the top branches of a tree.”


Tom’s cowardice was as huge as his courage, as it must be in great men.


Tom lay in the dark of his room, puzzled as a child. He could hear his heart beating and rasping a little in its beat. His mind fell away from thought and clung for safety to little plans, designs, machines.


A man, after he has brushed off the dust and chips of his life, will have left only the hard, clean questions: Was it good or was it evil? Have I done well—or ill?


And in our time, when a man dies—if he has had wealth and influence and power and all the vestments that arouse envy, and after the living take stock of the dead man’s property and his eminence and works and monuments—the question is still there: Was his life good or was it evil?—which is another way of putting Croesus’s question. Envies are gone, and the measuring stick is: “Was he loved or was he hated? Is his death felt as a loss or does a kind of joy come of it?”


We have only one story. All novels, all poetry, are built on the never-ending contest in ourselves of good and evil. And it occurs to me that evil must constantly respawn, while good, while virtue, is immortal. Vice has always a new fresh young face, while virtue is venerable as nothing else in the world is.


They say a clean cut heals soonest. There’s nothing sadder to me than associations held together by nothing but the glue of postage stamps. If you can’t see or hear or touch a man, it’s best to let him go.”


In the West End there was a room for each grade—third, fourth, and fifth on the ground floor, six, seventh, and eighth on the second floor. Each room had the usual desks of battered oak, a platform and square teacher’s desk, one Seth Thomas clock and one picture. The pictures identified the rooms, and the pre-Raphaelite influence was overwhelming. Galahad standing in full armor pointed the way for third-graders; Atalanta’s race urged on the fourth, the Pot of Basil confused the fifth grade, and so on until the denunciation of Cataline sent the eighth-graders on to high school with a sense of high civic virtue.


It is possible that if in the night the frog sound should have stopped, everyone in Salinas would have awakened, feeling that there was a great noise.


“Perhaps the best conversationalist in the world is the man who helps others to talk.”


And as a few strokes on the nose will make a puppy head shy, so a few rebuffs will make a boy shy all over. But whereas a puppy will cringe away or roll on its back, groveling, a little boy may cover his shyness with nonchalance, with bravado, or with secrecy. And once a boy has suffered rejection, he will find rejection even where it does not exist—or, worse, will draw it forth from people simply by expecting it.


Perhaps in his father’s very unawareness Cal had felt safety. Not being noticed at all was better than being noticed adversely.


Things do not change with a change of scene.


Aron’s training in worldliness was gained from a young man of no experience, which gave him the ability for generalization only the inexperienced can have.


It is one of the triumphs of the human that he can know a thing and still not believe it.


Will said, “I want to know something and I want the truth. Will you tell me the truth?” “I don’t know,” said Cal. “I like that. How do you know until you know the question? I like that. That’s smart—and honest.


Lee read European history, trying to discern from the filaments of the past some pattern of the future.


Methodically he primed his brain with half a tumbler of whisky and then he crossed his hands behind his head and crossed his ankles and he brought out thoughts and impressions and perceptions and instincts and began matching them.


“Timshel—thou mayest.”


Adam had forgotten him and changed him the way any man changes someone he loves. With Aron gone, the silences were the result of his going, and every little painful event was somehow tied to his absence.


Alf could do anything, and as a result he was a financial failure although he worked all the time.


Train schedules are a matter of pride and of apprehension to nearly everyone. When, far up the track, the block signal snapped from red to green and the long, stabbing probe of the headlight sheered the bend and blared on the station, men looked at their watches and said, “On time.” There was pride in it, and relief too. The split second has been growing more and more important to us. And as human activities become more and more intermeshed and integrated, the split tenth of a second will emerge, and then a new name must be made for the split hundredth, until one day, although I don’t believe it, we’ll say, “Oh, the hell with it. What’s wrong with an hour?” But it isn’t silly, this preoccupation with small time units. One thing late or early can disrupt everything around it, and the disturbance runs outward in bands like the waves from a dropped stone in a quiet pool.


Every man has a retirement picture in which he does those things he never had time to do—makes the journeys, reads the neglected books he always pretended to have read.


Adam asked, “Do you know where your brother is?” “No, I don’t,” said Cal. “Weren’t you with him at all?” “No.” “He hasn’t been home for two nights. Where is he?” “How do I know?” said Cal. “Am I supposed to look after him?”


“Everything is only for a day, both that which remembers and that which is remembered.


He wanted the story and he wanted it to come out his way. He couldn’t stand to have it come out any other way.” “How about you?” “I don’t want to know how it comes out. I only want to be there while it’s going on.


Enough, Cassidy Hutchinson


With its high, ornate ceilings and chandeliers, it looks like a Hollywood set that’s meant to transform the often cramped and dingy reality of government office space into a majestic hall of power.


Steph told me that midwestern men tend to be a bit more reserved than Jersey men.


Other than the few New Jersey state troopers who Dad was friends with, Dad frequently reminded me that I should never trust anyone with a government badge.


She was slightly winded as she told me that the biggest mistake a woman could make was to think she couldn’t do the same thing as a man.


He used to hate TV, warning us that it was the government’s tactic to rot our brains with new technology, and that they were being dishonest about its long-term effects.


Joe and I were the history buffs in the group, and we stopped to inspect every monument and plaque, passing the memorials to the Vietnam War, the Korean War, and World War II.


My eighth-grade history teacher took notice that I was especially interested in his US history class, and asked if I had thought about running for student government.


I did not know much about government other than what Dad told me about not trusting people who worked for it. I was apprehensive and was not sure if local government was something I should be part of.


The first election I genuinely paid attention to was in 2012.


I spent an extensive amount of time researching each party’s policy platforms, and found myself relating to the Republican Party.


machinations.


It wouldn’t change what had already transpired, and I didn’t want Mom to feel bad. Plus my story was much more fun to tell because of it.


I visited Gettysburg College, fell in love with it, and decided not to tour other universities. From my first moment on campus, I felt that Gettysburg was where the next chapter of my life was meant to unfold. And then I received a small envelope, not the big one. I had been wait-listed, and my future crashed before my eyes.


Neither candidate, Hillary Clinton nor Donald Trump, jumped out at me at the time, but the moderate policies that Trump embraced were appealing to me. As a Republican, I decided I would vote for him, though I did not think he would win the election.


I took his advice, printed one hundred copies of my résumé to drop one off at every Senate office, and planned to take on a second job during the school year. Within a few weeks, I accepted an internship in the office of Senator Ted Cruz, of Texas, agreeing to forgo my vacation with William and his family to the Jersey Shore.


Steve’s office had access to an underground bunker that members had used to flee the Capitol in August 1814, during the War of 1812, when British troops set fire to the building. As of June 2017, it was the worst attack on the Capitol in our nation’s history.


I moved to Cruz’s office at the beginning of July 2017 and realized within a day that I preferred the House. The Senate was intentionally designed for the wheels of government to turn more slowly there, making it harder to get things done.


I had long admired McCain, and found his action an inspiring example of an American patriot putting his country before his party.


Existentialism Is a Humanism, Jean-Paul Sartre and Annie Cohen-Solal and Arlette Elkaïm-Sartre and and Carol Macomber


Another successful strategy allows Sartre to place Camus in a literary tradition that includes Kafka, Dostoyevsky, Gide, Hemingway, Somerset Maugham, Nietzsche, and Kierkegaard—with whom Sartre elsewhere acknowledges his own kinship.


Already in his commentary on The Stranger we see him acting as a mediator between the literary past and present: so much of his critical work sets out to explain the genesis of the great French literary works of the nineteenth century (Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Flaubert); and the many prefaces he wrote (to works by contemporaries like Jean Genet, Nathalie Sarraute, Roger Stéphane, Paul Nizan, Franz Fanon, Albert Memmi, Aimé Césaire, Léopold Sédar Senghor) amount to a kind of scorecard.


Let’s give him the opportunity to address this new audience, who will surely then go on to discover Nausea, The Words, The Wall and Other Stories, The Family Idiot, The Condemned of Altona, The Roads to Freedom, and so many more of his writings. Let him act with them as he did with his own students, shocking many of them when he declared one day at the Sorbonne: “The only way to learn is to question.”


man, or, as Heidegger put it, the human reality.


Man is not only that which he conceives himself to be, but that which he wills himself to be, and since he conceives of himself only after he exists, just as he wills himself to be after being thrown into existence, man is nothing other than what he makes of himself. This is the first principle of existentialism.


Everything happens to every man as if the entire human race were staring at him and measuring itself by what he does.


Around 1880, when some French professors attempted to formulate a secular morality, they expressed it more or less in these words: God is a useless and costly hypothesis, so we will do without it. However, if we are to have a morality, a civil society, and a law-abiding world, it is essential that certain values be taken seriously; they must have an a priori existence ascribed to them.


In life, a man commits himself and draws his own portrait, outside of which there is nothing. No doubt this thought may seem harsh to someone who has not made a success of his life. But on the other hand, it helps people to understand that reality alone counts, and that dreams, expectations, and hopes only serve to define a man as a broken dream, aborted hopes, and futile expectations; in other words, they define him negatively, not positively.


We have now, I think, dispensed with a number of charges brought against existentialism. You have seen that it cannot be considered a philosophy of quietism, since it defines man by his actions, nor can it be called a pessimistic description of man, for no doctrine is more optimistic, since it declares that man’s destiny lies within himself. Nor is existentialism an attempt to discourage man from taking action, since it tells him that the only hope resides in his actions and that the only thing that allows him to live is action.


I cannot discover any truth whatsoever about myself except through the mediation of another. The other is essential to my existence, as well as to the knowledge I have of myself. Under these conditions, my intimate discovery of myself is at the same time a revelation of the other as a freedom that confronts my own and that cannot think or will without doing so for or against me. We are thus immediately thrust into a world that we may call “intersubjectivity.”


The fundamental aim of existentialism is to reveal the link between the absolute character of the free commitment, by which every man realizes himself in realizing a type of humanity—a commitment that is always understandable, by anyone in any era—and the relativity of the cultural ensemble that may result from such a choice.


This is humanism because we remind man that there is no legislator other than himself and that he must, in his abandoned state, make his own choices, and also because we show that it is not by turning inward, but by constantly seeking a goal outside of himself in the form of liberation, or of some special achievement, that man will realize himself as truly human.


Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation (Pulitzer Prize Winner), Joseph J. Ellis


After the Revolution: Profiles of Early American Culture


“It is not by the direct method of scrupulous narration,” Strachey wrote, that the explorer of the past can hope to depict a singular epoch. If he is wise, he will adopt a subtler strategy. He will attack his subject in unexpected places; he will fall upon the flank and rear; he will shoot a sudden revealing searchlight into obscure recesses, hitherto undivined. He will row out over the great ocean of material, and lower down into it, here and there, a little bucket, which will bring up to the light of day some characteristic specimen, from those far depths, to be examined with a careful curiosity.


The following colleagues saved me from countless blunders: Richard Brookhiser, Andrew Burstein, Robert Dalzell, David Brion Davis, Joanne Freeman, Donald Higginbotham, Pauline Maier, Louis Mazur, Philip Morgan, Peter Onuf, and Gordon Wood.


At least it seems safe to say that some form of representative government based on the principle of popular sovereignty and some form of market economy fueled by the energies of individual citizens have become the commonly accepted ingredients for national success throughout the world. These legacies are so familiar to us, we are so accustomed to taking their success for granted, that the era in which they were born cannot help but be remembered as a land of foregone conclusions.2


The basic framework for all these institutions and traditions was built in a sudden spasm of enforced inspiration and makeshift construction during the final decades of the eighteenth century.


The very term “American Revolution” propagates a wholly fictional sense of national coherence not present at the moment and only discernible in latent form by historians engaged in after-the-fact appraisals of how it could possibly have turned out so well.


For the core argument used to discredit the authority of Parliament and the British monarch, the primal source of what were called “Whig principles,” was an obsessive suspicion of any centralized political power that operated in faraway places beyond the immediate supervision or surveillance of the citizens it claimed to govern.


The American Revolution thus entered a second phase and the constitutional settlement of 1787–1788 became a second “founding moment,” alongside the original occasion of 1776. The first founding declared American independence; the second, American nationhood. The incompatibility of these two foundings is reflected in the divisive character of the scholarship on the latter. Critics of the Constitution, then and now, have condemned it as a betrayal of the core principles of the American Revolution, an American version of France’s Thermidorian reaction. Strictly speaking, they were and are historically correct.


based on a set of presumptions that are so disarmingly old-fashioned that they might begin to seem novel in the current climate.


Though many historians have taken a compromise or split-the-difference position over the ensuing years, the basic choice has remained constant, as historians have declared themselves Jeffersonians or Hamiltonians, committed individualists or dedicated nationalists, liberals or conservatives, then written accounts that favor one camp over the other, or that stigmatize one side by viewing it through the eyes of the other, much as the contestants did back then.


in a way that Paine could tell us was commonsensical and Jefferson could tell us was self-evident, both sides in the debate have legitimate claims on historical truth and both sides speak for the deepest impulses of the American Revolution.


But the key point is that the debate was not resolved so much as built into the fabric of our national identity. If that means the United States is founded on a contradiction, then so be it. With that one bloody exception, we have been living with it successfully for over two hundred years. Lincoln once said that America was founded on a proposition that was written by Jefferson in 1776. We are really founded on an argument about what that proposition means.


Enough justifying and generalizing. If the following stories converge to make some larger point, the surest way to reach it is through the stories themselves.


a lifelong disciple of Lord Chesterfield’s maxim that a gentleman was free to do anything he pleased as long as he did it with style.


In fact, the contradictory versions of the next four to five seconds of the duel might serve as evidence for the postmodern contention that no such thing as objective truth exists, that historic reality is an inherently enigmatic and endlessly negotiable bundle of free-floating perceptions.


About this same time, he drafted a “Thesis on Discretion” for his eldest surviving son. It singled out discretion as “if not a splendid … at least a very useful virtue,”


“His private character is not defended by his most partial friends. He is bankrupt beyond redemption except by the plunder of his country. His public principles have no other spring or aim than his own aggrandizement.… If he can he will certainly disturb our institutions to secure himself permanent power and with it wealth. He is truly the Catiline of America.”36


Honor mattered because character mattered. And character mattered because the fate of the American experiment with republican government still required virtuous leaders to survive. Eventually, the United States might develop into a nation of laws and established institutions capable of surviving corrupt or incompetent public officials. But it was not there yet. It still required honorable and virtuous leaders to endure.


Though he was still suffering from the lingering vestiges of a migraine headache that had lasted for over a month, and though he had only recently moved into his new quarters at 57 Maiden Lane in New York City, Jefferson offered to host a private dinner party where the main players could meet alone to see if the intractable political obstacles might melt away under the more benign influences of wine and gentlemanly conversation.


Homage to Catalonia, George Orwell


Things were not made easier for me by the fact that when my companions spoke to one another they generally spoke in Catalan. The only way I could get along was to carry everywhere a small dictionary which I whipped out of my pocket in moments of crisis. But I would sooner be a foreigner in Spain than in most countries. How easy it is to make friends in Spain! Within a day or two there was a score of militiamen who called me by my Christian name, showed me the ropes and overwhelmed me with hospitality.


A Spaniard’s generosity, in the ordinary sense of the word, is at times almost embarrassing. If you ask


The Spaniards are good at many things, but not at making war. All foreigners alike are appalled by their inefficiency, above all their maddening unpunctuality. The one Spanish word that no foreigner can avoid learning is mañana—’tomorrow’ (literally, ‘the morning’).


In trench warfare five things are important: firewood, food, tobacco, candles and the enemy.


Georges Kopp, on his periodical tours of inspection, was quite frank with us. ‘This is not a war,’ he used to say, ‘it is a comic opera with an occasional death.’ As a matter of fact the stagnation on the Aragón front had political causes of which I knew nothing at that time; but the purely military difficulties—quite apart from the lack of reserves of men—were obvious to anybody.


One evening when it was barely even dusk a sentry let fly at me from a distance of twenty yards; but he missed me by a yard—goodness knows how many times the Spanish standard of marksmanship has saved my life.


It is curious that all the time I was in Spain I never once saw a person cross himself; yet you would think such a movement would become instinctive, revolution or no revolution. Obviously the Spanish Church will come back (as the saying goes, night and the Jesuits always return), but there is no doubt that at the outbreak of the revolution it collapsed and was smashed up to an extent that would be unthinkable even for the moribund C of E in like circumstances.


There was a section of Andalusians next to us in the line now. I do not know quite how they got to this front. The current explanation was that they had run away from Málaga so fast that they had forgotten to stop at Valencia; but this, of course, came from the Catalans, who professed to look down on the Andalusians as a race of semi-savages. Certainly the Andalusians were very ignorant. Few if any of them could read, and they seemed not even to know the one thing that everybody knows in Spain—which political party they belonged to. They thought they were Anarchists, but were not quite certain; perhaps they were Communists.


It is so different from the rest of my life that already it has taken on the magic quality which, as a rule, belongs only to memories that are years old. It was beastly while it was happening, but it is a good patch for my mind to browse upon. I wish I could convey to you the atmosphere of that time.


The fat Russian agent was cornering all the foreign refugees in turn and explaining plausibly that this whole affair was an Anarchist plot. I watched him with some interest, for it was the first time that I had seen a person whose profession was telling lies—unless one counts journalists.


The fact is that every war suffers a kind of progressive degradation with every month that it continues, because such things as individual liberty and a truthful press are simply not compatible with military efficiency.


The Popular Front might be a swindle, but Franco was an anachronism. Only millionaires or romantics could want him to win.


Once again I let this opinion stand, and take the chance that time will do to me what it does to most prophets.


There must have been about two minutes during which I assumed that I was killed. And that too was interesting—I mean it is interesting to know what your thoughts would be at such a time. My first thought, conventionally enough, was for my wife. My second was a violent resentment at having to leave this world which, when all is said and done, suits me so well. I had time to feel this very vividly. The stupid mischance infuriated me.


Spaniards seem not to recognise such a thing as a light diet. They give the same food to sick people as to well ones—always the same rich, greasy cookery, with everything sodden in olive oil.


No one I met at this time—doctors, nurses, practicantes, or fellow-patients—failed to assure me that a man who is hit through the neck and survives it is the luckiest creature alive. I could not help thinking that it would be even luckier not to be hit at all.


It is a peculiarity of English travellers that they do not really believe in the existence of anything outside the smart hotels. I hope they found some butter for the Duchess of Atholl.


For almost the first time I felt that I was really in Spain, in a country that I had longed all my life to visit. In the quiet back streets of Lérida and Barbastro I seemed to catch a momentary glimpse, a sort of far-off rumour of the Spain that dwells in everyone’s imagination. White sierras, goatherds, dungeons of the Inquisition, Moorish palaces, black winding trains of mules, grey olive trees and groves of lemons, girls in black mantillas, the wines of Málaga and Alicante, cathedrals, cardinals, bullfights, gypsies, serenades—in short, Spain.


Obviously there must be a list of foreign ‘Trotskyist’ suspects, and very likely our names were on it, but with luck we might get to the frontier before the list. There was sure to be a lot of muddle and mañana. Fortunately this was Spain and not Germany. The Spanish secret police had some of the spirit of the Gestapo, but not much of its competence.


I have the most evil memories of Spain, but I have very few bad memories of Spaniards. I only twice remember even being seriously angry with a Spaniard, and on each occasion, when I look back, I believe I was in the wrong myself. They have, there is no doubt, a generosity, a species of nobility, that do not really belong to the twentieth century.


Killers of the Flower Moon: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI, David Grann


For years after the American Revolution, the public opposed the creation of police departments, fearing that they would become forces of repression.


By the time of Anna’s death, the informal system of citizen policing had been displaced, but vestiges of it remained, especially in places that still seemed to exist on the periphery of geography and history.


Because these enforcers received pitiful salaries and were prized for being quick draws, it’s not surprising that the boundary between good lawmen and bad lawmen was porous.


“I am perfectly content with my condition. The forests and rivers supply all the calls of nature in plenty.”


(The term “to detect” derived from the Latin verb “to unroof,” and because the devil, according to legend, allowed his henchmen to peer voyeuristically into houses by removing their roofs, detectives were known as “the devil’s disciples.”)


The Osage Chief—which, in the same issue, happened to carry a tribute to Abraham Lincoln as an inspiration to Americans—stated on its front page, HENRY ROAN SHOT BY UNKNOWN HAND.


Leonardo da Vinci, Walter Isaacson


Vision without execution is hallucination.


Had he been a student at the outset of the twenty-first century, he may have been put on a pharmaceutical regimen to alleviate his mood swings and attention-deficit disorder.


Pope Alexander VI, also during Leonardo’s lifetime, had multiple mistresses and illegitimate children, one of whom was Cesare Borgia, who became a cardinal, commander of the papal armies, an employer of Leonardo, and the subject of Machiavelli’s The Prince.


“Leonardo da Vinci, disscepolo della sperientia,”16 he once signed himself.


Leonardo drew a moral: “This is what happens to those who leave a life of solitary contemplation and choose to come to dwell in cities among people full of infinite evil.”2


“Leave your family and friends and go over the mountains and valleys into the country,” he instructed aspiring painters. “While you are alone you are entirely your own master.”


The impulses of his grandfather and uncle, who both practiced the quiet country life, were imprinted in Leonardo’s imagination but not practiced in his life.


The culture rewarded, above all, those who mastered and mixed different disciplines.


“One must apply the greatest artistry in three things,” Alberti wrote, “walking in the city, riding a horse, and speaking, for in each of these one must try to please everyone.”12 Leonardo mastered all three.


The visit marked the climax of the Medici practice of using public pageants and spectacles to dissipate popular discontent.


Thus one of history’s most creative artists found himself decorating a clock for firewood, borrowing money for paint, and cadging wine.


“he never finished any of the works he began because, so sublime was his idea of art, he saw faults even in the things that to others seemed miracles.”


“We do not lack devices for measuring these miserable days of ours, in which it should be our pleasure that they be not frittered away without leaving behind any memory of ourselves in the mind of men.”46 He began scribbling the same phrase over and over again, every time he needed to try a new pen nib or to fritter away a moment: “Tell me if anything was ever done . . . Tell me . . . Tell me.”47 And at one point he jotted a cry of anguish: “While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning how to die.”48


Malibu Rising: A Novel, Taylor Jenkins  Reid


“I’ll be rich one day, don’t worry,” he said. “I’m just advising you that I’m a penny stock.”


Alcoholism is a disease with many faces, and some of them look beautiful.


suddenly everyone around her was high as fuck and believing their own myths about themselves. I am the greatest. I am the funniest. I have it going on.


Medieval Graffiti: The Lost Voices of England's Churches, Matthew Champion


And yet, despite playing such a fundamental role in the rites of passage of countless generations of commoners, we still know very little of how these individuals, the vast majority of the medieval congregation, actually interacted with the church on a physical level.


The fact that very few of these highly visible graffiti inscriptions were defaced or destroyed also suggests that the medieval residents of the parish had a very different view of graffiti than we have today.


During this time, they were not covered over or defaced, but were actually carefully added to over time. It must then be assumed that these images were respected by those who held power in the local church. They were, unlike almost all modern graffiti, both accepted and acceptable.


They were the prayers, memorials, hopes and fears of the medieval parish.


Looking at medieval graffiti inscriptions is a relatively new area of study and few previous academics or researchers have examined it in any detail. While this certainly makes it a fascinating and exciting area to look at, the ground-breaking nature of the work means exactly that; the researcher has to start pretty much from scratch.


While the study of medieval manuscripts might offer few insights on the imagery included in medieval graffiti, one very rewarding area of research has been the study of ‘marginalia’. The marginalia of a medieval manuscript is the area outside the main body of the page and the text that contains most of the illuminated decoration.


They are recorded as far back as 1199, when the pope gave the authorities in Rome a monopoly on producing badges of St Peter and St Paul for sale to pilgrims, and they were subsequently made and sold in quite phenomenal numbers. Records show that the Swiss monastery of Einsiedeln managed to sell over 130,000 such badges in a single two-week period during 1466; making this trade a very significant source of revenue for many shrines.


The fundamental problem with this, of course, is that very few people ever think to write down their reasons for believing in a superstition, let alone what many of their folk beliefs may be. Like throwing coins into a fountain or well, it is something that millions of people have done over many hundreds of years, but barely a handful have ever felt the need to write about it afterwards – and even if they did, then they are unlikely to leave behind a detailed explanation of their reasons for doing so. The same appears to be the case with medieval graffiti.


Just because a symbol is carved into medieval material does not necessarily make it medieval in date.


Until the middle years of the sixteenth century, the inclusion of a date in graffiti inscriptions is an extreme rarity; and it does not become commonplace until the early years of the seventeenth century. This could be because the date was unimportant, or irrelevant, though it also coincides with the period when most individual’s and legal documents dated events to the year of the reign of the current monarch, or ‘regnal’ year as it was known.


Commonly known as ‘ritual protection marks’, or even ‘witch marks’, an apotropaic image or symbol is a marking that is thought to create ‘protection’ for the individual that created it – or for the area or object into which it was inscribed. Derived from the Greek apotropaios, meaning to ‘turn away evil’, the term apotropaic has come to refer to all symbols of protection. This protection could take many forms. At its most simple level it can be thought of as something that was thought to bring good luck while warding off bad luck, or the ‘evil eye’. However, the concept isn’t quite so straightforward. At its most fundamental level it is a symbol that brings general good fortune, in much the same way that picking a four-leaf clover might still be regarded.


The medieval church, particularly at the parish level, was a place where magic and ritual were central to the services of the Church. From the Transubstantiation of the Latin Mass, where the blessed wine and bread were believed to physically transform into the blood and body of Christ, to the blessing of the plough to ensure good harvests, or the ringing of church bells to ward off lightning, the medieval church encouraged and fostered a belief in the protective power of physical symbols.


apotropaic


There are three main motifs that form the central group of these apotropaic markings found among medieval-church graffiti; the compass-drawn design, the pentangle and the ‘VV’ symbol.


Most of these symbols – with the exception of the ‘VV’ markings – have one thing in common, and that is that they are all made in the form of an ‘endless line’.


Therefore, the power of the endless knot is that once the evil begins to follow the line it will never come to an end, thereby trapping itself within the symbol.


From that one simple compass-drawn circle, you can create hexagons, equilateral triangles, right-angled triangles, diamonds and perfectly proportioned rectangles. In short, from that one compass-drawn circle, you can derive all the basic geometric knowledge needed to build a church or cathedral.


In some churches, it is still a tradition that the north door, sometimes known as the ‘Devils Door’ after the association between evil and the north side of the churchyard, is left ajar during the ceremony, to allow the evil to exit the building unhindered.


Misery: A Novel, Stephen King


Without the piling, there was no tide.


Listening to Annie was like listening to a song played in the wrong key.


Not a dry eye in the house when that had happened, including Paul’s own—only the dew falling from his ocularies had been the result of hysterical laughter.


Yes! Give me the matches! Give me a blowtorch! Give me a Baby Huey and a load of napalm! I’ll drop a tactical nuke on it if that’s what you want, you fucking beldame!


NOT TO BE DISPENSED WITHOUT PHYSICIAN’S PRESCRIPTION, the box said. “Oh dear Jesus, the doctor is in!” Paul sobbed.


Although he knew it was too soon to be feeling any relief, he did feel it—having the pills, it seemed, was even more important than taking the pills.


Down here we got our act clean yesterday, and we plan to start getting our act clean tomorrow, but we never clean up our act today.


Realism was not necessary; fairness was.


There’s a million things in this world I can’t do. Couldn’t hit a curve ball, even back in high school. Can’t fix a leaky faucet. Can’t roller-skate or make an F-chord on the guitar that sounds like anything but shit. I have tried twice to be married and couldn’t do it either time. But if you want me to take you away, to scare you or involve you or make you cry or grin, yeah. I can. I can bring it to you and keep bringing it until you holler uncle. I am able. I CAN.


nothing had ever been able to pollute that crazy well of dreams: no drink, no drug, no pain.


Here I am, he thought once, the world’s only monastic druggie.


He supposed there was a certain symbolism in Annie’s pantry—the ranks of goods had something to say about the murkiness of the borderline between the Sovereign State of Reality and the People’s Republic of Paranoia.


You’re like a man who loves nothing better than a thick steak but wouldn’t last an hour in a slaughterhouse.


It was a famous old hotel called the Overlook. It burned down ten years ago. The caretaker burned it down. He was crazy. Everybody in town said so. But never mind; he’s dead.


I’ve read about some so-called ‘famous authors,’ and I know that often they are quite unpleasant. Why, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway and that redneck fellow from Mississippi—Faulkner or whatever it was—those fellows may have won National Pulitzer Book Awards and things, but they were nothing but cockadoodie drunken bums just the same. Other ones, too—when they weren’t writing wonderful stories they were drinking and whoring and shooting dope and heaven knows what else.


Because writers remember everything, Paul. Especially the hurts. Strip a writer to the buff, point to the scars, and he’ll tell you the story of each small one. From the big ones you get novels, not amnesia. A little talent is a nice thing to have if you want to be a writer, but the only real requirement is that ability to remember the story of every scar. Art consists of the persistence of memory.


He didn’t need a psychiatrist to point out that writing had its autoerotic side—you beat a typewriter instead of your meat, but both acts depended largely on quick wits, fast hands, and a heartfelt commitment to the art of the farfetched.


it had been like looking at photographs of his own imagination, and he knew that from that moment on, whenever he tried to imagine Misery’s little combination parlor and study, Mrs. Roman D. (“Virginia”) Sandpiper’s Polaroids would leap immediately into his mind, obscuring imagination with their cheery but one-dimensional concreteness.


She broke it into two pieces, and dropped it into the plastic bag. Incredibly, she genuflected after doing this.


A guy who makes up stories, a guy like that is lying to everyone, so that guy can’t ever lie to himself. It’s funny, but it’s also the truth.


Annie swung her shotgun toward the camera-man; the camera-man, deciding he wanted to live to see the Grateful Dead again more than he wanted to roll tape on the Dragon Lady, immediately dropped into the back seat again.


The reason authors almost always put a dedication on a book, Annie, is because their selfishness even horrifies themselves in the end.


He had always known and accepted the fact that the gods were hard; he had no desire, however, to live in a world where the gods were insane.


In a book, all would have gone according to plan… but life was so fucking untidy—what could you say for an existence where some of the most crucial conversations of your life took place when you needed to take a shit, or something? An existence where there weren’t even any chapters?


Moral Tribes: Emotion, Reason, and the Gap Between Us and Them, Joshua Greene


Despite their fighting, the herders of the new pastures are, in many ways, very similar. For the most part, they want the same things: healthy families, tasty and nutritious food, comfortable shelter, labor-saving tools, leisure time to spend with friends and family.


Our values may color our view of the facts.


More generally, it’s rare to find a cooperative enterprise in which individuals have no opportunity to favor themselves at the expense of the group. In other words, nearly all cooperative enterprises involve at least some tension between self-interest and collective interest, between Me and Us. And thus, nearly all cooperative enterprises are in danger of eroding, like the commons in Hardin’s parable.


Cooperation evolves, not because it’s “nice” but because it confers a survival advantage.


enough


On Having No Head, Douglas Harding


The fact that I happened to be walking in the Himalayas at the time probably had little to do with it; though in that country unusual states of mind are said to come more easily.


All twoness - all duality of subject and object - has vanished: it is no longer read into a situation which has no room for it.


As for these lurking aches and tickles and so on, they can no more quench or shade this central brightness than these mountains and clouds and sky can do so. Quite the contrary: they all exist in its shining, and through them it is seen to shine. Present experience, whatever sense is employed, occurs only in an empty and absent head.


If I fail to see what I am (and especially what I am not) it’s because I’m too busily imaginative, too “spiritual”, too adult and knowing, too credulous, too intimidated by society and language, too frightened of the obvious to accept the situation exactly as I find it at this moment. Only I am in a position to report on what’s here. A kind of alert naivety is what I need. It takes an innocent eye and an empty head (not to mention a stout heart) to admit their own perfect emptiness.


have never been anything but this ageless, measureless, lucid and altogether immaculate Void: it is unthinkable that I could ever have confused that staring wraith over there with what I plainly perceive myself to be here and now and always!


If one opens one’s eyes and seeks the body, it is not to be found anymore. This is called: In the empty chamber it grows light. Inside and outside, everything is equally light. That is a very favorable sign. THE SECRET OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER Vow to achieve the perfect understanding that the illusory body is like dew and lightening. ZEN MASTER HSU YUN (on his death-bed, in 1959)


An added reason for dismay was the fact that, among my acquaintances, it was often the more cultivated and intelligent who seemed specially unable to see the point: as if headlessness were an infantile aberration which, like thumb-sucking, one should have grown out of and forgotten long ago.


Yengo (1566-1642) writes of Zen: “It is presented right to your face, and at this moment the whole thing is handed over to you ... Look into your whole being ... Let your body and mind be turned into an inanimate object of nature like a stone or a piece of wood; when a state of perfect motionlessness and unawareness is obtained all the signs of life will depart and also every trace of limitation will vanish.


Sankara (c.820), the great sage and interpreter of Advaita or absolute non-duality, taught that a man has no hope of liberation until he ceases to identify himself with the body, which is a mere illusion born of ignorance: his real Self is like space, unattached, pure, infinite. Confusing the unreal body with this real Self is bondage and misery. This doctrine still survives in India. One of its most lucid recent exemplars, Ramana Maharshi (1879-1950), would say to inquirers: “Till now you seriously considered yourself to be the body and to have a form. That is the primal ignorance which is the root cause of all trouble.”


And, in a better-known passage: “You never enjoy the world aright, till the sea itself floweth in your veins, till you are clothed with the heavens, and crowned with the stars.” This is none other than the Zen experience of satori - only the language differs a little. At the moment of satori there is an explosion, and a man has no body but the universe.


Traherne


To one who knows nothing, It is clearly revealed. MEISTER ECKHART (1260-1327) And what rule do you think I walked by? Truly a strange one, but the best in the whole world. I was guided by an implicit faith in God’s goodness; and was therefore led to the study of the most obvious and common things. THOMAS TRAHERNE (1627-1674)


Really to lose our heads, we must first have them firmly in place. Really to appreciate What we are, with clarity and impact, we must first be identified with what we are not.


Here are three of many means of making the turnabout, for the attentive and honest reader instantly to try out: (i) What you are now looking at is this printing; what you are now looking out of is empty Space for this printing. Trading your head for it, you put nothing in its way: you vanish in its favour. (ii) What you are now looking out of isn’t two small and tightly fastened “windows” called eyes but one immense and wide open “Window” without any edges; in fact you are this frameless, glassless “Window”. (iii) To make quite sure of this, you have only to point to the “Window” and notice what that finger is pointing at - if anything. Please do just that, now ...


Fourth, this experience is uniquely communicable, because it is exactly the same for all - for the Buddha, for Jesus, for Shen-hui, for Al-Alawi, for you and me. Naturally so, since there’s nothing in it to differ about, nothing to go wrong, nothing idiosyncratic or merely personal and private. In headlessness we find common Ground at last. How unlike all those other experiences which are so hard to share! However vividly you describe and try to demonstrate to your companion your perceptions and thoughts and feelings, you can never be sure he is enjoying the same thing. (You and he agree to label the flower red, beautiful, interesting, and so on; but the inner experience the label is attached to is essentially a private one, impossible to get across to another. Your actual experience of red, for example, could be his experience of pink, or even blue.)


To use the matchless Eastern image, it’s a hugely reassuring fact that the purest and most exquisite of flowers - the lotus of enlightenment - blooms in the muddiest and unhealthiest of lowland swamps, amid the mire of the passions, of all that sordid and silly mind-stuff, of all our evil and pain. Clean up the swamp (what a hope!) or try to transplant the lotus amid aseptic upland snows of an otherworldly and esoteric spirituality, and it withers. Zen goes so far as to say that the passions are enlightenment, the swamp is the lotus.


Our two-way meditation, then, is truly radical psychotherapy - psychotherapy so deep that overt and particular results may be very slow indeed to surface. Nevertheless, when sufficiently persisted in, it is sure to yield - more as a bonus than an expected reward - quite specific improvements in that “outer” scene, in the problem-ridden realm of our everyday lives.


All the same, neither loneliness nor any other difficulty will hold anyone back, and everything - just the right books, teachers, circumstances - will leap to his assistance, if he’s determined to press on.


He should not be discouraged when people react negatively - for to throw out this insight they must first have taken it in, and moved one step nearer the time when it’s allowed to stay.


Besides confirming yet again one’s true Identity, this aspect of our submission to the Obvious - of our two-way looking, our meditation for all seasons - happens to take the rush out of “the rush of modern life”: or rather, out of the one who thinks he rushes. He never moved an inch. All his agitation is illusory. He neither needs nor can do anything to calm down - except stop overlooking the place where he is forever at rest, where the Peace that passes all understanding is so brilliantly self-evident. This yearned-for tranquility, which he imagined was always evading him, is discovered at his very centre, begging to be noticed!


Here in me - on my side of this inward-pointing finger, of this page, of every object - there stretches this unplumbed Chasm. (To it I owe the happy - if paradoxical - fact that the star-sprinkled sky, though no longer distant from me by an angstrom, is nevertheless more other, more awesomely celestial - than ever it was: lending it unlimited distance from my unlimited resources, I lend it unlimited enchantment.)


(1) The first is the abandonment of our assumption that of course things are and have to be what they are. It is giving up our adult, sophisticated, man-or-woman-of-the-world assurance that (as we say) we know it all, that we’ve seen it all before, that there’s nothing new under the Sun, that we have it all taped, that “wow!” is childish and a yawning “so what?” is grown-up.


However, the key to it is minuscule, and it lies in the distance between those little words, what and that. Here, WHAT reality is loses all importance, THAT reality is becomes all-important. Ludwig Wittgenstein wrote; “What things are in the world is a matter of complete indifference to what is higher. God does not reveal himself in the world ... It is not what things are in the world that is mystical, but that it exists.” Which I would expand to: the truly mystical fact is that God - alias Self-aware Being - exists, and after him the existence of his world is comparatively unremarkable, a matter of course.


(Actually there’s no ego-trip to match the spiritual ego-trip! Satan is said to be the most enlightened of all angels: the only spiritual excellence he lacks is humility, self-abandonment. Doubtless no more than a deeply significant myth; nevertheless the ego in us all is devilish enough and capable of endless twists and turns.)


whenever we have the grace to say YES! to our circumstances, and actively to will (rather than passively to acquiesce in) whatever happens, why then there springs up that real and lasting joy which Eastern tradition calls ananda.


For further light on this coming together of what we see and what we will, let’s revert to our earlier quotation from one of the Buddha’s sermons: “Nirvana is visible in this life, inviting, attractive, accessible to the wise disciple.” What exactly is this so-visible Nirvana? In the same sermon it is described as “the Peace, the Highest ... the end of craving, the turning away from desire.” Here at last the split is mended; there is no wound dividing the Nothing that is so clearly seen from the Nothing that is now deeply felt - as unconditional surrender of the will. Or, to repeat the Buddha’s phrase, as the end of craving.


The present moment holds infinite riches beyond your wildest dreams.”


here is a Zen story. A certain master had a gifted pupil, whom he decided to send to a great teacher who would put the final touch to his training and point the way to the crowning Zen experience. To the pupil’s astonishment, this best of teachers turned out to be a poor and rather sick old woman, from whom he could extract no teaching. However, she did in the end reveal all. It was this: “I’ve no complaints!”


What we are can be trusted to reveal Itself in all its noonday freshness and warmth and brilliance, its blazing obviousness, exactly when It should.


The truth is that the Headless Way isn’t a way after all, a means of getting somewhere. Everything one’s heart could possibly desire is freely given from the very start. This makes it strikingly different from those disciplines and courses which come in progressive installments, with the real goods to be delivered some day: and meanwhile there has to be this Institution to lay down the rules and administer the whole business. Who, anyway, would join a set-up and pay good money to be given - when sufficiently trained - what he sees he already has, in full measure, pressed down and shaken together and running over?


And in fact a number of our “headless” friends find it helpful to belong to some established religious or quasi-religious community. But the headless one remains the Only One, and sees itself as the Alone, and faces its Solitariness. At this level there are no others.


Second, some assistance in that aim is offered by the website www.headless.org. Third, besides the large and precious (and increasingly available) mystical literature of the world - mystical in the sense that it points to our true Identity - there is a small number of books and other aids by the author. Fourth and last, if headless friends still prove hard to find, they may not be so hard to make. The condition, in spite of all resistances, is infectious and uniquely communicable. Anyhow, one of the best ways to keep it up is to pass it on.


To repeat our initial question, then: where do we go now? The answer is: nowhere. Let us resolutely stay right here, seeing and being This which is Obviousness itself, and take the consequences. They will be all right.


Speak, Memory: An Autobiography Revisited (Vintage International), Vladimir Nabokov


Aleksandr Ivanovich Hertzen (1812–1870) was a famous liberal (whom this commemoration by a police state would hardly have gratified) as well as the talented author of Bïloe i Dumï (translatable as “Bygones and Meditations”), one of my father’s favorite books.


Aleksandr Ivanovich Hertzen (1812–1870) was a famous liberal (whom this commemoration by a police state would hardly have gratified) as well as the talented author of Bïloe i Dumï (translatable as “Bygones and Meditations”), one of my father’s favorite books.


Nature expects a full-grown man to accept the two black voids, fore and aft, as stolidly as he accepts the extraordinary visions in between. Imagination, the supreme delight of the immortal and the immature, should be limited. In order to enjoy life, we should not enjoy it too much. I rebel against this state of affairs. I feel the urge to take my rebellion outside and picket nature.


Nature expects a full-grown man to accept the two black voids, fore and aft, as stolidly as he accepts the extraordinary visions in between. Imagination, the supreme delight of the immortal and the immature, should be limited. In order to enjoy life, we should not enjoy it too much. I rebel against this state of affairs. I feel the urge to take my rebellion outside and picket nature.


Initially, I was unaware that time, so boundless at first blush, was a prison. In probing my childhood (which is the next best to probing one’s eternity) I see the awakening of consciousness as a series of spaced flashes, with the intervals between them gradually diminishing until bright blocks of perception are formed, affording memory a slippery hold. I had learned numbers and speech more or less simultaneously at a very early date, but the inner knowledge that I was I and that my parents were my parents seems to have been established only later, when it was directly associated with my discovering their age in relation to mine.


Initially, I was unaware that time, so boundless at first blush, was a prison. In probing my childhood (which is the next best to probing one’s eternity) I see the awakening of consciousness as a series of spaced flashes, with the intervals between them gradually diminishing until bright blocks of perception are formed, affording memory a slippery hold. I had learned numbers and speech more or less simultaneously at a very early date, but the inner knowledge that I was I and that my parents were my parents seems to have been established only later, when it was directly associated with my discovering their age in relation to mine.


Genius disappeared when everything had been stored, just as it does with those other, more specialized child prodigies—pretty, curly-headed youngsters waving batons or taming enormous pianos, who eventually turn into second-rate musicians with sad eyes and obscure ailments and something vaguely misshapen about their eunuchoid hindquarters.


Genius disappeared when everything had been stored, just as it does with those other, more specialized child prodigies—pretty, curly-headed youngsters waving batons or taming enormous pianos, who eventually turn into second-rate musicians with sad eyes and obscure ailments and something vaguely misshapen about their eunuchoid hindquarters.


To him, in a way, I owe the ability to continue for another stretch along my private footpath which runs parallel to the road of that troubled decade.


To him, in a way, I owe the ability to continue for another stretch along my private footpath which runs parallel to the road of that troubled decade.


AS FAR back as I remember myself (with interest, with amusement, seldom with admiration or disgust), I have been subject to mild hallucinations. Some are aural, others are optical, and by none have I profited much.


AS FAR back as I remember myself (with interest, with amusement, seldom with admiration or disgust), I have been subject to mild hallucinations. Some are aural, others are optical, and by none have I profited much.


The confessions of a synesthete must sound tedious and pretentious to those who are protected from such leakings and drafts by more solid walls than mine are.


The confessions of a synesthete must sound tedious and pretentious to those who are protected from such leakings and drafts by more solid walls than mine are.


The schismatic mood revealed itself in her healthy distaste for the ritual of the Greek Catholic Church and for its priests. She found a deep appeal in the moral and poetical side of the Gospels, but felt no need in the support of any dogma.


The schismatic mood revealed itself in her healthy distaste for the ritual of the Greek Catholic Church and for its priests. She found a deep appeal in the moral and poetical side of the Gospels, but felt no need in the support of any dogma.


Her intense and pure religiousness took the form of her having equal faith in the existence of another world and in the impossibility of comprehending it in terms of earthly life. All one could do was to glimpse, amid the haze and the chimeras, something real ahead, just as persons endowed with an unusual persistence of diurnal cerebration are able to perceive in their deepest sleep, somewhere beyond the throes of an entangled and inept nightmare, the ordered reality of the waking hour.


Her intense and pure religiousness took the form of her having equal faith in the existence of another world and in the impossibility of comprehending it in terms of earthly life. All one could do was to glimpse, amid the haze and the chimeras, something real ahead, just as persons endowed with an unusual persistence of diurnal cerebration are able to perceive in their deepest sleep, somewhere beyond the throes of an entangled and inept nightmare, the ordered reality of the waking hour.


The following passage is not for the general reader, but for the particular idiot who, because he lost a fortune in some crash, thinks he understands me.


The day would take hours to fade, and everything—sky, tall flowers, still water—would be kept in a state of infinite vesperal suspense, deepened rather than resolved by the doleful moo of a cow in a distant meadow or by the still more moving cry that came from some bird beyond the lower course of the river, where the vast expanse of a misty-blue sphagnum bog, because of its mystery and remoteness, the Rukavishnikov children had baptized America.


Stoner (New York Review Books Classics), John Williams and John McGahern


He did his work at the University as he did his work on the farm—thoroughly, conscientiously, with neither pleasure nor distress.


he responded with a detached, ironic amusement.


“That time of year thou mayst in me behold When yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang Upon those boughs which shake against the cold, Bare ruin’d choirs where late the sweet birds sang. In me thou see’st the twilight of such day As after sunset fadeth in the west; Which by and by black night doth take away, Death’s second self, that seals up all in rest. In me thou see’st the glowing of such fire, That on the ashes of his youth doth lie, As the death-bed whereon it must expire, Consumed with that which it was nourisht by. This thou perceivest, which makes thy love more strong, To love that well which thou must leave ere long.”


he wondered if he appeared as ludicrous to others as he did to himself. He had no plans for the future, and he spoke to no one of his uncertainty.


Though he had talked about the war in Europe with the older students and instructors, he had never quite believed in it; and now that it was upon him, upon them all, he discovered within himself a vast reserve of indifference. He resented the disruption which the war forced upon the University; but he could find in himself no very strong feelings of patriotism, and he could not bring himself to hate the Germans.


portentous


The guests moved around him, exchanged seats, altered their inflections as they found new partners for conversation. Stoner saw them through a haze, as if he were an audience.


Edith’s parents met him with the cool formality he had expected, and they tried at once to destroy any sense of ease he might have had.


Like many men who consider their


success incomplete, he was extraordinarily vain and consumed with a sense of his own importance.


He thought of Edith and felt some reassurance. He supposed that all men were as uncertain as he suddenly had become, and had the same doubts.


So the bed that had been the arena of their passion became the support of her illness.


For a few moments in the evening, then, they talked quietly and casually, as if they were old friends or exhausted enemies.


he thought of the slow decline of this man who had been his distant friend.


Lomax sat alone in the back of the room, smoking and looking at the high ceiling, apparently oblivious of the heads that turned now and then to look at him.


The party was like many another. Conversation began desultorily, gathered a swift but feeble energy, and trailed irrelevantly into other conversations; laughter was quick and nervous, and it burst like tiny explosives in a continuous but unrelated barrage all over the room; and the members of the party flowed casually from one place to another, as if quietly occupying shifting positions of strategy.


As he worked on the room, and as it began slowly to take a shape, he realized that for many years, unknown to himself, he had had an image locked somewhere within him like a shamed secret, an image that was ostensibly of a place but which was actually of himself. So it was himself that he was attempting to define as he worked on his study. As he sanded the old boards for his bookcases, and saw the surface roughnesses disappear, the gray weathering flake away to the essential wood and finally to a rich purity of grain and texture—as he repaired his furniture and arranged it in the room, it was himself that he was slowly shaping, it was himself that he was putting into a kind of order, it was himself that he was making possible.


He apologized for the absence of his wife and explained her illness, until at last he realized that his repetitions of apology were stressing her absence rather than accounting for it; he said no more and hoped that his silence was less compromising than were his explanations.


His eyes were hot and dry, and he could not weep.


Their lives had been expended in cheerless labor, their wills broken, their intelligences numbed. Now they were in the earth to which they had given their lives; and slowly, year by year, the earth would take them.


He felt himself at last beginning to be a teacher, which was simply a man to whom his book is true, to whom is given a dignity of art that has little to do with his foolishness or weakness or inadequacy as a man. It was a knowledge of which he could not speak, but one which changed him, once he had it, so that no one could mistake its presence.


“During our first meeting we discussed the scope of this seminar, and we decided that we should limit our study of the medieval Latin tradition to the first three of the seven liberal arts—that is, to grammar, rhetoric, and dialectic.” He paused and watched the faces—tentative, curious, and masklike—focus upon him and what he said.


“Such a limiting may seem foolishly rigorous to some of you; but I have no doubt that we shall find enough to keep us occupied even if we trace only superficially the course of the trivium upward into the sixteenth century. It is important that we realize that these arts of rhetoric, grammar, and dialectic meant something to a late medieval and early Renaissance man that we, today, can only dimly sense without an exercise of the historical imagination. To such a scholar, the art of grammar, for example, was not merely a mechanical disposition of the parts of speech. From late Hellenistic times through the Middle Ages, the study and practice of grammar included not only the ‘skill of letters’ mentioned by Plato and Aristotle; it included also, and this became very important, a study of poetry in its technical felicities, an exegesis of poetry both in form and substance, and nicety of style, insofar as that can be distinguished from rhetoric.”


“Yes,” Stoner said. “He behaved rather foolishly in the seminar today. I was just wondering if I should attach any special significance to it.”


On the contrary, he wished to suggest, as do I, that the soaring lyricism of Shakespeare was not attributable to the burning of the midnight oil, but to a genius natural and supreme to rule and mundane law. Unlike lesser poets, Shakespeare was not born to blush unseen and waste his sweetness on the desert air; partaking of that mysterious source to whence all poets go for their sustenance, what need had the immortal bard of such stultifying rules as are to be found in a mere grammar? What would Donatus be to him, even if he had read him? Genius, unique and a law unto itself, needs not the support of such a ‘tradition’ as has been described to us, whether it be generically Latin or Donatan or whatever. Genius, soaring and free, must ...”


He had come to that moment in his age when there occurred to him, with increasing intensity, a question of such overwhelming simplicity that he had no means to face it. He found himself wondering if his life were worth the living; if it had ever been. It was a question, he suspected, that came to all men at one time or another; he wondered if it came to them with such impersonal force as it came to him. The question brought with it a sadness, but it was a general sadness which (he thought) had little to do with himself or with his particular fate; he was not even sure that the question sprang from the most immediate and obvious causes, from what his own life had become. It came, he believed, from the accretion of his years, from the density of accident and circumstance, and from what he had come to understand of them. He took a grim and ironic pleasure from the possibility that what little learning he had managed to acquire had led him to this knowledge: that in the long run all things, even the learning that let him know this, were futile and empty, and at last diminished into a nothingness they did not alter.


he could see nothing before him that he wished to enjoy and little behind him that he cared to remember.


the person one loves at first is not the person one loves at last, and that love is not an end but a process through which one person attempts to know another.


Stoner had thought of love as an absolute state of being to which, if one were lucky, one might find access; in his maturity he had decided it was the heaven of a false religion, toward which one ought to gaze with an amused disbelief, a gently familiar contempt, and an embarrassed nostalgia. Now in his middle age he began to know that it was neither a state of grace nor an illusion; he saw it as a human act of becoming, a condition that was invented and modified moment by moment and day by day, by the will and the intelligence and the heart.


Like all lovers, they spoke much of themselves, as if they might thereby understand the world which made them possible.


inimical;


dissimulation,


For a moment he saw himself as he must thus appear; and what Edith said was part of what he saw. He had a glimpse of a figure that flitted through smoking-room anecdotes, and through the pages of cheap fiction—a pitiable fellow going into his middle age, misunderstood by his wife, seeking to renew his youth, taking up with a girl years younger than himself, awkwardly and apishly reaching for the youth he could not have, a fatuous, garishly got-up clown at whom the world laughed out of discomfort, pity, and contempt. He looked at this figure as closely as he could; but the longer he looked, the less familiar it became. It was not himself that he saw, and he knew suddenly that it was no one.


beg for the bread that would allow them to beg again;


he realized the futility and waste of committing one’s self wholly to the irrational and dark forces that impelled the world toward its unknown end; as Archer Sloane had not done, Stoner withdrew a little distance to pity and love, so that he was not caught in the rushing that he observed.


one purpose of this course is to study certain works of the period roughly between twelve and fifteen hundred. Certain accidents of history will stand in our way; there will be linguistic difficulties as well as philosophical, social as well as religious, theoretical as well as practical. Indeed, all of our past education will in some ways hinder us; for our habits of thinking about the nature of experience have determined our own expectations as radically as the habits of medieval man determined his.


perfunctory

Notes: 1) Most used wod by far... 


Yet for all his stoical endurance and his stolid movement through the days and weeks, he was an intensely divided man.


she would live her days out quietly, drinking a little more, year by year, numbing herself against the nothingness her life had become. He was glad she had that, at least; he was grateful that she could drink.


Yet his age, he knew, was not pretense. He saw the sickness of the world and of his own country during the years after the great war; he saw hatred and suspicion become a kind of madness that swept across the land like a swift plague; he saw young men go again to war, marching eagerly to a senseless doom, as if in the echo of a nightmare. And the pity and sadness he felt were so old, so much a part of his age, that he seemed to himself nearly untouched.


Dispassionately, reasonably, he contemplated the failure that his life must appear to be. He had wanted friendship and the closeness of friendship that might hold him in the race of mankind; he had had two friends, one of whom had died senselessly before he was known, the other of whom had now withdrawn so distantly into the ranks of the living that ... He had wanted the singleness and the still connective passion of marriage; he had had that, too, and he had not known what to do with it, and it had died. He had wanted love; and he had had love, and had relinquished it, had let it go into the chaos of potentiality. Katherine, he thought. “Katherine.”


Tender Is the Flesh, Agustina Bazterrica and Sarah Moses


His brain warns him that there are words that cover up the world.


No one can call them humans because that would mean giving them an identity.


Nélida is a woman who deals with things that really don’t interest her with an exaggerated passion.


His father is a person of integrity, that’s why he went crazy.


“I don’t get why a person’s smile is considered attractive. When someone smiles, they’re showing their skeleton.”


“Today I’m the butcher, tomorrow I might be the cattle.”


It disturbs him that there’s something feminine beneath the brutal aura she takes great care to give off. There’s something admirable in her artificial indifference. There’s something about her he’d like to break.


He remembers there was a sentence that everyone repeated, horrified: “Slavery is barbaric.”


the Chagall print she’d picked out to place above the bed. Paris Through the Window: there’s a cat with a human face, a man flying with a triangular parachute, a colorful window, a dark couple, and a man with two faces and a heart in his hand. There’s something that speaks to the craziness of the world, a craziness at times cheerful, and cruel, even though all of the figures are serious.


His father barely speaks now. He emits sounds. Complaints.


Because hatred gives one strength to go on; it maintains the fragile structure, it weaves the threads together so that emptiness doesn’t take over everything.


youth doesn’t guarantee anything.


“The government wants to manipulate you, that’s the only reason it exists.”


Parents who name their children after themselves are stripping them of an identity, reminding them who they belong to.


“The human being is the cause of all evil in this world. We are our own virus.”


“Everyone says that he fell because he flew too close to the sun,” his father said, “but he flew, do you see what I mean, Son? He was able to fly. It doesn’t matter if you fall, if you were a bird for even just a few seconds.”


The British Are Coming: The War for America, Lexington to Princeton, 1775-1777 (The Revolution Trilogy Book 1), Rick Atkinson


“George III, by the grace of God, king of Great Britain, France, and Ireland, defender of the faith, and so forth.” (The claim to France was a bit of nostalgia dating to the fourteenth century.)


burghers


“The Wooden Walls of England,” a new, four-stanza tribute to the navy: “Hail, happy isle!… Spread then thy sails where naval glory calls, / Britain’s best bulwarks are her wooden walls.”


Now the crowds pressed to the water’s edge, delirious with pride, and their roar carried to the king’s ear, still ringing from all those guns.


he incessantly touted “air, moderate exercise, and diet,”


The three requirements of a British king came easily to him: to shun Roman Catholicism, to obey the law, and to acknowledge Parliament, which gave him both an annual income of £800,000 and an army.


He saw himself as both a moral exemplar and the guardian of British interests—a thankless task, given his belief that he lived in “the wickedest age that ever was seen.” Royal duty required that he help the nation avoid profligacy and error. He was no autocrat, but his was the last word; absent strong, countervailing voices from his ministers, his influence would be paramount, particularly with respect to, say, colonial policy.


And if his subjects cheered him to the echo, why should they not? Theirs was the greatest, richest empire since Rome. Britain was ascendant, with mighty revolutions—agrarian and industrial—well under way. A majority of all European urban growth in the first half of the century had occurred in England; that proportion was now expanding to nearly three-quarters, with the steam engine patented in 1769 and the spinning jenny a year later. Canals were cut, roads built, highwaymen hanged, coal mined, iron forged. Sheep would double in weight during the century; calf weights tripled. England and Wales now boasted over 140,000 retail shops. A nation of shopkeepers had been born.


Here on March 14, 1757, Admiral John Byng, convicted by court-martial of “failing to do his utmost” during a French attack on Minorca, had been escorted in a howling gale to a quarterdeck sprinkled with sawdust to absorb his blood. Sailors hoisted aboard a coffin already inscribed with his name. Dressed in a light gray coat, white breeches, and a white wig, Byng knelt on a cushion and removed his hat. After a pardonable pause, he dropped a handkerchief from his right hand to signal two ranks of marines with raised muskets. They fired. Voltaire famously observed that he died “pour encourager les autres.”


The Brothers Karamazov: A New Translation by Michael R. Katz, Fyodor Dostoevsky and Michael R. Katz


He especially admired Gogol, whose intensely imaginative writings emphasized the plight of the downtrodden “little people” of the capital.


The Federalist Papers (AmazonClassics Edition), Alexander Hamilton and James Madison and and John Jay


If there be any truth in the remark, the crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that decision is to be made; and a wrong election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve to be considered as the general misfortune of mankind.


The Fullness of Time: Temporalities of the Fifteenth-Century Low Countries, Matthew S. Champion


Images of time’s plenitude evoke the eschatological languages of fulfillment of prophecy that saturate the biblical tradition, and which were in turn taken up, transformed, and modulated into languages of time and eternity, old and new, in Pauline theology and early Christianity.


The fifteenth century here inhabits an uneasy space between the medieval and the modern, more precisely between the late medieval and the early modern (like an impolite dinner guest, the fifteenth century rarely arrives on time).


But, to re-voice Augustine of Hippo’s (354–430) famous formulation: what is time? Who can comprehend this even in thought so as to articulate the answer in words? Yet what do we speak of, in our familiar everyday conversation, more than of time? We surely know what we mean when we speak of it. We also know what is meant when we hear someone else talking about it. What then is time? Provided that no one asks me, I know. If I want to explain to an inquirer, I do not know. But I confidently affirm myself to know that if nothing passes away, there is no past time, and if nothing arrives, there is no future time, and if nothing existed there would be no present time.13


For if we are born into the midst of time, and situated even before our birth within folds of narrative, those folds are also the clothing of our senses and our bodies, the pages of the books we read, the folding of sound waves into each other, the vibrations of our vocal folds as we talk and sing, the worlds we shape and inhabit.


More recent accounts, similarly interested in the genealogy of modern temporality and time measurement, are David S. Landes’s Revolution in Time: Clocks and the Making of the Modern World (1983) and Gehard Dohrn-van Rossum’s magisterial History of the Hour: Clocks and Modern Temporal Orders (1996), the best current survey of the history of time measurement.


Moves toward a less schematic history of time were, of course, well underway before Ricoeur: Eric Auerbach’s classic essay on figura, for example, had shown that temporal organization in the medieval world could not be reduced to simple cycles or straight lines.


psychologist Jerome Bruner has demonstrated.46 Bruner reports how, when a reader is asked to retell a story from Joyce’s Dubliners, the reader’s discourse changes, including mirroring certain linguistic transformations in Joyce’s text that were absent from the reader’s earlier language use: the reader is “resonating to . . . [the text’s] discourse.”47 This kind of insight into the capacity of texts to shape readers has profound implications for the history of time. For if we accept Augustine’s understanding of the intrication of textuality and time, we must think about the ways in which texts might be shaping and forming the temporal horizons of fifteenth-century readers.


The Message, Ta-Nehisi Coates


It is never enough for the reader of your words to be convinced. The goal is to haunt—to have them think about your words before bed, see them manifest in their dreams, tell their partner about them the next morning, to have them grab random people on the street, shake them and say, “Have you read this yet?”


But back then, in an unwired world, stories, words, histories—none of it could be gotten on demand. If you bore witness to such a feat—as I did with Allen—it lived in memory until the broadcast gods decided you could see it again.


A belief in genius is a large part of what plagues us, and I have found that people widely praised for the power of their intellect are as likely to illuminate as they are to confound. “Genius” may or may not help a writer whose job is, above all else, to clarify.


He is thirty-two, and maybe now he can feel the dread that strikes you at that age—a realization that the years really can slip away, like all those dreams of revolution, without leaving a trace. And his response to all that weight is incredible: He picks up a book. Daddy says he reads to learn. But what was Daddy trying to learn?


The answer to everything was in a book, he believed, which is to say in the record.


I don’t really care much for hearing “both sides” or “opposing points of view,” so much as I care about understanding the literary tools deployed to advance those views—the discipline of voice, the use of verbs, the length and brevity of sentences, and the curiosity of mind behind those sentences.


I guess it’s worth pointing out the obvious—that the very governors and politicians who loudly exalt the values of free speech are among the most aggressive prosecutors of “divisive concepts.” And I guess it should be noted that what these politicians—and even some writers—dubbed “critical race theory” bore little resemblance to that theory’s actual study and practice. So I will note it. But the simple fact is that these people were liars, and to take them seriously, to press a case of hypocrisy or misreading, is to be distracted again.


History is not inert but contains within it a story that implicates or justifies political order. So it was with Josiah Nott looking back to Ancient Egypt to justify slavery. And so it is with the American Revolution and the founding of a great republic, or the Greatest Generation who did not fight to defend merely the homeland but the entire world. If you believe that history, then you are primed to believe that the American state is a force for good, that it is the world’s oldest democracy, and that those who hate America hate it for its freedoms. And if you believe that, then you can believe that these inexplicable haters of freedom are worthy of our drones. But a different history, one that finds its starting point in genocide and slavery, argues for a much darker present and the possibility that here too are haters of freedom, unworthy of the power they wield. A political order is premised not just on who can vote but on what they can vote for, which is to say on what can be imagined. And our political imagination is rooted in our history, our culture, and our myths. That the country’s major magazines, newspapers, publishing houses, and social media were suddenly lending space to stories that questioned the agreed-upon narrative meant that Americans, as a whole, might begin to question them too. And a new narrative—and a new set of possibilities—might then be born.


My first instinct is to laugh, but then I remember that American history is filled with men and women who were as lethal as they were ridiculous. And when I force myself to take a serious look, I see something familiar: an attempt by adults to break the young minds entrusted to them and remake them in a more orderly and pliable form.


The danger we present, as writers, is not that we will simply convince their children of a different dogma but that we will convince them that they have the power to form their own.


The late Jamal Khashoggi was fond of the Arabic proverb “Say your word, then leave.” I try to live by that, because I am at my worst out there defending my children, and at my best making more of them.


I understand the impulse to dismiss the import of the summer of 2020, to dismiss the “national conversations,” the raft of TV specials and documentaries, even the protests themselves. Some of us see the lack of policy change and wonder if the movement itself was futile. But policy change is an end point, not an origin. The cradle of material change is in our imagination and ideas.


No one, not a single speaker, stood up to support the book’s banning. I was initially surprised by this, but later I understood—school board meetings, and local politics, are small affairs, easily dominated by an organized faction, and that night the faction was Mary’s.


Jesse James is America’s own Robin Hood, an outlaw hailed in novels, film, and music for standing against the great forces of industrial capitalism, the railroads, and the robber barons of the North. Art hides the truth of Jesse James—that he was the scion of a slaveholding family, that he fought on the side of slavery and then against Reconstruction, and that in his first train robbery he wore a Ku Klux Klan mask. In time, even that symbol of terrorism would itself be redeemed.


The statues and pageantry can fool you. They look like symbols of wars long settled, fought on behalf of men long dead. But their Redemption is not about honoring a past. It’s about killing a future.


roots. I remember watching World News Tonight with my father, and deriving from him a dull sense that the Israelis were “white” and the Palestinians were “Black,” which is to say that the former were the oppressors and the latter the oppressed.


If the average American was less rabid in their antisemitism, that spelled no great sympathy for the Holocaust’s survivors. In a 1945 poll, only 5 percent of Americans believed that immigration should be increased, while 37 percent believed immigration should be further restricted.


The Israeli writer and chronicler Amos Elon once described archaeology in Israel as “almost a national sport,” which had captivated a nation forever looking for “the reassurance of roots.” Elon noted that Israeli national symbols were almost wholly drawn from antiquities. “For the disquieted Israeli,” Elon wrote, “the moral comforts of archaeology are considerable.” Like that of the British before them, Zionist archaeology sought to affirm the Bible as history to affirm its state project.


Looking out on the plaza, filled with worshippers and tourists, I understood that I was standing in a place meant to inspire reverence and solemnity. But by then I knew how easily such feelings could be transformed into a casus belli.


Archaeology was interpretive, Alon explained. You find four walls, and you call it a room—and if you are predisposed to believe that you are in the seat of an ancient kingdom, then why can’t it be the throne room?


The Nix: A novel, Nathan Hill


And her husband or boyfriend or whoever he is, who cannot manage to keep the picture steady, says “Would you just help me?” in this aggressive and accusatory way that’s meant to communicate that whatever problem he’s having with the camera is her responsibility.


The people working at their desks behind the TV anchor, meanwhile, do not appear at this moment to be working any harder or less hard than they were earlier in the day.


It sometimes occurs to Samuel that his career has followed roughly the same trajectory as global finance: The good times of summer 2001 seem now, in hindsight, like a pleasant and whimsical daydream.


But it seems to Samuel that all the school is preparing them for is to sit quietly and fake that they’re working. To feign the appearance of concentration when in fact they’re checking sports scores or e-mail or watching videos or spacing out. And come to think of it, maybe this is the most important lesson the school could teach them about the American workplace: how to sit calmly at your desk and surf the internet and not go insane.


Samuel thinks about Bethany the way other people maybe think about God. As in: How is God judging me? Samuel has the same impulse, though he’s replaced God with this other great absence: Bethany. And sometimes, if he thinks about this too much, he can fall down a kind of hole and it’s like he’s experiencing his life at a one-step remove, as if he’s not leading his life but rather assessing and appraising a life that weirdly, unfortunately, happens to be his.


It was like the game equivalent of being the groom at a wedding.


he gets into bed and he doesn’t so much “fall asleep” as he plummets into a sudden allover concussive darkness.


One of these days very soon when he would wake up early and eat a healthy breakfast and get working on the kitchen and clean the cabinets and buy some groceries and avoid the computer and finally, for an entire day, do everything exactly, perfectly right. He swears. He promises. One of these days will be the day that changes everything.


They’re like charged particles colliding and bouncing apart in what Samuel assumes is some psychosexual melodrama playing out extracurricularly.


She had built her academic career the typical way: by knowing everything there was to know about an extraordinarily small field (her specific niche was literature written during the plague, about the plague).


“You lied to me,” she says, affecting this injured and aggrieved tone that sounds inherited from thousands of television family dramas.


POST HOC, ERGO PROPTER HOC


Periwinkle is like a flashlight aimed at all your shortcomings. He makes you think consciously of the image you are projecting of yourself.


Samuel reaches his exit. How people bypass the line and dive into any available cranny in front, skipping all the drivers patiently waiting, all of whom are now enraged at this because they each have to wait incrementally longer, but also a bigger and deeper rage that the asshole didn’t wait his turn like everyone else, that he didn’t suffer like they suffer, and then also a tertiary inner rage that they are suckers who wait in lines.


He looked like an egg standing on toothpicks.


He wondered why adults felt they needed to be at their most uncomfortable for their most cherished events.


She often had that disassociated quality, like she was focusing on you with maybe one-third of herself, the rest devoted to whatever things she kept locked inside her head.


“You have to be careful,” Pwnage said, “with people who are puzzles and people who are traps. A puzzle can be solved but a trap cannot. Usually what happens is you think someone’s a puzzle until you realize they’re a trap. But by then it’s too late. That’s the trap.”


The only fundamental truth is greed, and the only question is who is up front about this. That’s the new authenticity. Molly Miller can never be accused of selling out because selling out was her goal all along.”


Those PBS nature documentaries they showed in the common room said all life aimed toward reproduction. At Willow Glen, all life aimed toward avoiding litigation.


Faye wonders if she should pity those who live so narrowly inside their memories.


She’s speaking loud enough for the rest of the room to hear her but quiet enough that they’re not part of the conversation. This is a typical Margaret pose: extroverted, yet also exclusive.


the only thing more painful than a panic attack was someone else seeing it.


The flip side of being a person who never fails at anything is that you never do anything you could fail at. You never do anything risky. There’s a certain essential lack of courage among people who seem to be good at everything.


We love people because they love us. It’s narcissistic. It’s best to be perfectly clear about this and not let abstractions like fate and destiny muddle the issue.


I’m in this facsimile of Main Street USA. This charming little street that multinationals like Disney helped annihilate in the real world. Nobody here seems to mind the irony, though.”


It’s no secret that the great American pastime is no longer baseball. Now it’s sanctimony.”


At college, at Juilliard, the “Love you” at the end of her correspondence switches quickly to “Love ya,” which stings. “Love ya” seems to be what happens to real love when its formality and dignity are amputated.


The space between you is something she must resolve herself.


She had that naturalist’s lack of attention to outward appearances, an indifference toward things like cosmetics and grooming that read not as apathy but rather as transcendence.


She’d decided that about eighty percent of what you believe about yourself when you’re twenty turns out to be wrong. The problem is you don’t know what your small true part is until much later.


She sighed and looked at the ground. “He’s like the most dangerous species of American there is: heterosexual white male who didn’t get what he wanted.”


He was a compass needle always pointed toward her.


How easily a simple façade can become your life, can become the truth of your life.


But then they’d be at a restaurant looking at menus and she’d say what looked good and he’d say what looked good and they’d stare at the plates of other diners and point out those that also looked good and express how they were perhaps changing their mind about what they intended to order and that whole inner debate one usually has when ordering food at a restaurant would be vocalized and performed for the express purpose of filling space, of jamming the silence so full of meaningless idle chitchat that they’d never get around to talking about the thing they never talked about


Imagine a single drop of water: that’s the protest. Now put that drop of water into a bucket: that’s the protest movement. Now drop that bucket into Lake Michigan: that’s Reality. But old Cronkite knows the danger of television is that people begin seeing the entire world through that single drop of water.


The best way to feel like you really belong to a group is to invent another group to hate.


the thin white one with the gargoyles near the top: the building at 55 Liberty Street. Bethany’s building.


“I actually thought I’d gotten famous on my own.” “The only people who get famous on their own are serial killers. Everyone else needs people like me.”


Notice that I’m not telling you what to do here, just illuminating two paths, one of which I hope is the obvious choice if you are not totally insane.”


“What’s true? What’s false? In case you haven’t noticed, the world has pretty much given up on the old Enlightenment idea of piecing together the truth based on observed data. Reality is too complicated and scary for that. Instead, it’s way easier to ignore all data that doesn’t fit your preconceptions and believe all data that does.


It’s a terrible burden, being idealistic. It discolors everything you’ll do later. It will haunt you constantly for all time as you become the inevitably cynical person the world requires you to be. Just give up on it now, the idealism, doing the right thing. Then you’ll have nothing to regret later.”


He thinks it’s disallowable that the places of life’s most important moments continue going on looking like themselves, unaffected, simple facts that resist the imprint of the stories happening around them.


Austerity


Samuel had grown so comfortable being angry. Anger was such an easy emotion to feel, the refuge of someone who didn’t want to work too hard.


He’d settled into the anger because the anger was so much easier than the work required to escape it.


Because if you see people as enemies or obstacles or traps, you will be at constant war with them and with yourself. Whereas if you choose to see people as puzzles, and if you see yourself as a puzzle, then you will be constantly delighted, because eventually, if you dig deep enough into anybody, if you really look under the hood of someone’s life, you will find something familiar.


Sometimes we’re so wrapped up in our own story that we don’t see how we’re supporting characters in someone else’s.


The Outsider: A Novel, Stephen King


the way all vacations were later on: things with no more substance than the aftertaste of candy floss.


But when you have to decide between truth and legend, ese, print the legend. The wisdom of John Ford in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.


Yet instead of throwing these last soldiers of cancer out, she had tossed them in back of the utensil drawer, as if some dark and prescient part of her had known she would eventually need them again.


She sometimes thought that her pilgrimage to something at least approximating mental stability (if not genuine mental health) had been marked by the ritual casting off of bad habits. It had been hard to let them go. They were friends.


raconteur,


There’s an African proverb: he travels fastest who travels alone.


psychosomatic


heard the blare of trumpets that signaled the beginning of the Today show, which would open with the daily budget of bad news before moving on to the celeb of the week and many ads for prescription drugs.


The Overstory: A Novel, Richard Powers


It says: Sun and water are questions endlessly worth answering. It says: A good answer must be reinvented many times, from scratch.


Laurels insist that even death is nothing to lose sleep over.


The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion, Jonathan Haidt


I have striven not to laugh at human actions, not to weep at them, not to hate them, but to understand them. —Baruch Spinoza, Tractatus Politicus, 1676


People who devote their lives to studying something often come to believe that the object of their fascination is the key to understanding everything.


Politics and religion are both expressions of our underlying moral psychology, and an understanding of that psychology can help to bring people together.


The Trial by Franz Kafka: A Masterpiece of Modern Literature Exploring Power, Bureaucracy, and Existential Struggle (Grapevine Edition), Franz Kafka and  and


he might also have had a few unimportant occasions in mind when, unlike his more cautious friends, he had acted with no thought at all for what might follow and had been made to suffer for it. He didn't want that to happen again, not this time at least; if they were play-acting he would act along with them.


The supervisor may have agreed with him, at least K. thought that was what he saw from the corner of his eye. But it was just as possible that he had not even been listening as he had his hand pressed firmly down on the table and seemed to be comparing the length of his fingers.


The people in the left faction were not only fewer in number than the right but probably were no more important than them, although their behaviour was calmer and that made it seem like they were.


K. was pleased at the tension among all the people there as they listened to him, a rustling rose from the silence which was more invigorating than the most ecstatic applause could have been.


There were no coat hooks for them to use, and so they had placed their hats under the bench, each probably having followed the example of the others.


I hope, however, also to have acted in your interests, as even the slightest uncertainty in the least significant of matters will always remain a cause of suffering and if, as in this case, it can be removed without substantial effort, then it is better if that is done without delay."


K.'s uncle was always in a hurry, as he suffered from the unfortunate belief that he had a number of things to do while he was in the big city and had to settle all of them in one day—his visits were only ever for one day—and at the same time thought he could not forgo any conversation or piece of business or pleasure that might arise by chance.


K. said nothing, he knew what was coming, but, suddenly relieved from the effort of the work he had been doing, he gave way to a pleasant lassitude and looked out the window at the other side of the street.


"When you're as ill as I am," said the lawyer, "you need to have peace. I don't find it depressing."


He interrupted himself, whispered, "I bet you she's listening!" and sprang over to the door. But behind the door there was no-one, K.'s uncle came back not disappointed, as her not listening seemed to him worse than if she had been, but probably somewhat embittered. "You're mistaken about her," said the lawyer, but did nothing more to defend her; perhaps that was his way of indicating that she did not need defending.


Nonetheless, the most important thing is the lawyer's personal connections, that's where the real value of taking counsel lies.


He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing, keeping everything about himself to himself, speaking only casually about the interests of the other, able to raise him to a level above one's own, but also able, at will, to let him drop again.


there's an old legal saying you ought to bear in mind: If you're under suspicion it's better to be moving than still, as if you're still you can be in the pan of the scales without knowing it and be weighed along with your sins."


It was said that this Italian was an art lover, so the choice of K. to accompany him was a matter of course.


"No," said the priest, "you don't need to accept everything as true, you only have to accept it as necessary." "Depressing view," said K. "The lie made into the rule of the world."


